It was a splendid gold-enamelled box. I received it with respect, and with the expression of the deepest gratitude. If his eminence did not know how to write poetry, at least he knew how to be generous, and in a delicate manner, and that science is, at least in my estimation, superior to the other for a great nobleman. At noon, and much to my surprise, the beautiful marchioness made her appearance in the most elegant morning toilet. “If I had known you were in good company,” she said to the cardinal, “I would not have come.” “I am sure, dear marchioness, you will not find our dear abbé in the way.” “No, for I believe him to be honest and true.” I kept at a respectful distance, ready to go away with my splendid snuff-box at the first jest she might hurl at me. The cardinal asked her if she intended to remain to dinner. “Yes,” she answered; “but I shall not enjoy my dinner, for I hate to eat alone.” “If you would honour him so far, the abbé would keep you company.” She gave me a gracious look, but without uttering one word. This was the first time I had anything to do with a woman of quality, and that air of patronage, whatever kindness might accompany it, always put me out of temper, for I thought it made love out of the question. However, as we were in the presence of the cardinal, I fancied that she might be right in treating me in that fashion. The table was laid out near the cardinal’s bed, and the marchioness, who ate hardly anything, encouraged me in my good appetite. “I have told you that the abbé is equal to me in that respect,” said S. C. “I truly believe,” answered the marchioness, “that he does not remain far behind you; but,” added she with flattery, “you are more dainty in your tastes.” “Would her ladyship be so good as to tell me in what I have appeared to her to be a mere glutton? For in all things I like only dainty and exquisite morsels.” “Explain what you mean by saying in all things,” said the cardinal. Taking the liberty of laughing, I composed a few impromptu verses in which I named all I thought dainty and exquisite. The marchioness applauded, saying that she admired my courage. “My courage, madam, is due to you, for I am as timid as a hare when I am not encouraged; you are the author of my impromptu.” “I admire you. As for myself, were I encouraged by Apollo himself, I could not compose four lines without paper and ink.” “Only give way boldly to your genius, madam, and you will produce poetry worthy of heaven.” “That is my opinion, too,” said the cardinal. “I entreat you to give me permission to shew your ten stanzas to the abbé.” “They are not very good, but I have no objection provided it remains between us.” The cardinal gave me, then, the stanzas composed by the marchioness, and I read them aloud with all the expression, all the feeling necessary to such reading. “How well you have read those stanzas!” said the marchioness; “I can hardly believe them to be my own composition; I thank you very much. But have the goodness to give the benefit of your reading to the stanzas which his eminence has written in answer to mine. They surpass them much.” “Do not believe it, my dear abbé,” said the cardinal, handing them to me. “Yet try not to let them lose anything through your reading.” There was certainly no need of his eminence enforcing upon me such a recommendation; it was my own poetry. I could not have read it otherwise than in my best style, especially when I had before me the beautiful woman who had inspired them, and when, besides, Bacchus was in me giving courage to Apollo as much as the beautiful eyes of the marchioness were fanning into an ardent blaze the fire already burning through my whole being. I read the stanzas with so much expression that the cardinal was enraptured, but I brought a deep carnation tint upon the cheeks of the lovely marchioness when I came to the description of those beauties which the imagination of the poet is allowed to guess at, but which I could not, of course, have gazed upon. She snatched the paper from my hands with passion, saying that I was adding verses of my own; it was true, but I did not confess it. I was all aflame, and the fire was scorching her as well as me. The cardinal having fallen asleep, she rose and went to take a seat on the balcony; I followed her. She had a rather high seat; I stood opposite to her, so that her knee touched the fob-pocket in which was my watch. What a position! Taking hold gently of one of her hands, I told her that she had ignited in my soul a devouring flame, that I adored her, and that, unless some hope was left to me of finding her sensible to my sufferings, I was determined to fly away from her for ever. “Yes, beautiful marchioness, pronounce my sentence.” “I fear you are a libertine and an unfaithful lover.” “I am neither one nor the other.” With these words I folded her in my arms, and I pressed upon her lovely lips, as pure as a rose, an ardent kiss which she received with the best possible grace. This kiss, the forerunner of the most delicious pleasures, had imparted to my hands the greatest boldness; I was on the point of.... but the marchioness, changing her position, entreated me so sweetly to respect her, that, enjoying new voluptuousness through my very obedience, I not only abandoned an easy victory, but I even begged her pardon, which I soon read in the most loving look. She spoke of Lucrezia, and was pleased with my discretion.