When the king heard what had happened he ordered the worthy actress to leave Madrid, to prevent the duke ruining himself. Such is often the reward of virtue here below, but the malicious persons who had tried to injure Donna Pelliccia by calumniating her to the king were the means of making her fortune. The duke who had only spoken once or twice to the actress in public, and had never spent a penny on her, took the king’s command as an insult, and one not to be borne. He was too proud to solicit the king to revoke the order he had given, and in the end behaved in a way befitting so noble-minded a man. For the first time he visited Donna Pelliccia at her own house, and begging her to forgive him for having been the innocent cause of her disgrace, asked her to accept a rouleau and a letter which he laid on the table. The rouleau contained a hundred gold ounces with the words “for travelling expenses,” and the letter was addressed to a Roman bank, and proved to be an order for twenty-four thousand Roman crowns. For twenty-nine years this worthy woman kept an establishment at Rome, and did so in a manner which proved her worthy of her good fortune. The day after Donna Pelliccia’s departure the king saw the Duke of Arcos, and told him not to be sad, but to forget the woman, who had been sent away for his own good. “By sending her away, your majesty obliged me to turn fiction into fact, for I only knew her by speaking to her in various public places, and I had never made her the smallest present.” “Then you never gave her twenty-five thousand doubloons?” “Sire, I gave her double that sum, but only on the day before yesterday. Your majesty has absolute power, but if she had not received her dismissal I should never have gone to her house, nor should I have given her the smallest present.” The king was stupefied and silent; he was probably meditating on the amount of credit a monarch should give to the gossip that his courtiers bring him. I heard about this from M. Monnino, who was afterwards known under the title of Castille de Florida Blanca, and is now living in exile in Murcia, his native country. After Marescalchi had gone, and I was making my preparations for my journey to Barcelona, I saw one day, at the bull fight, a woman whose appearance had a strange kind of fascination about it. There was a knight of Alcantara at my side, and I asked him who the lady was. “She is the famous Nina.” “How famous?” “If you do not know her story, it is too long to be told here.” I could not help gazing at her, and two minutes later an ill-looking fellow beside her came up to my companion and whispered something in his ear. The knight turned towards me and informed me in the most polite manner that the lady whose name I had asked desired to know mine. I was silly enough to be flattered by her curiosity, and told the messenger that if the lady would allow me I would come to her box and tell her my name in person after the performance. “From your accent I should suppose you were an Italian.” “I am a Venetian.” “So is she.” When he had gone away my neighbour seemed inclined to be more communicative, and informed me that Nina was a dancer whom the Count de Ricla, the Viceroy of Barcelona, was keeping for some weeks at Valentia, till he could get her back to Barcelona, whence the bishop of the diocese had expelled her on account of the scandals to which she gave rise. “The count,” he added, “is madly in love with her, and allows her fifty doubloons a day.” “I should hope she does not spend them.” “She can’t do that, but she does not let a day pass without committing some expensive act of folly.” I felt curious to know a woman of such a peculiar character, and longed for the end of the bull fight, little thinking in what trouble this new acquaintance would involve me. She received me with great politeness, and as she got into her carriage drawn by six mules, she said she would be delighted if I would breakfast with her at nine o’clock on the following day. I promised to come, and I kept my word. Her house was just outside the town walls, and was a very large building. It was richly and tastefully furnished, and was surrounded by an enormous garden. The first thing that struck me was the number of the lackeys and the richness of their liveries, and the maids in elegant attire, who seemed to be going and coming in all directions. As I advanced I heard an imperious voice scolding some one. The scold was Nina, who was abusing an astonished-looking man, who was standing by a large table covered with stuffs and laces. “Excuse me,” said she, “but this fool of a Spaniard wants to persuade me that this lace is really handsome.” She asked me what I thought of the lace, and though I privately thought it lace of the finest quality, I did not care to contradict her, and so replied that I was no judge. “Madam,” said the tradesman, “if you do not like the lace, leave it; will you keep the stuffs?” “Yes,” she replied; “and as for the lace, I will shew you that it is not the money that deters me.” So saying the mad girl took up a pair of scissors and cut the lace into fragments. “What a pity!” said the man who had spoken to me at the bull fight. “People will say that you have gone off your head.” “Be silent, you pimping rogue!” said she, enforcing her words with a sturdy box on the ear.