I must have seen her, and yet I do not think I could have passed her by unrecognized. You have been with her ten years?” “Yes, sir, as I had the honour of informing you.” “Has she changed? Has she had any sickness? Has she aged?” “Not at all. She has become rather stout, but I assure you you would take her for a woman of thirty.” “I must be blind, or I cannot have seen her. I am going to write to her now.” The woman went out, leaving me in astonishment, at the extraordinary situation in which I was placed. “Ought I to return to Aix immediately?” I asked myself. She has a town house, but does not see company, but she might surely see me: She loves me still. She cared for me all through my illness, and she would not have done so if she had become indifferent to me. She will be hurt at my not recognizing her. She must know that I have left Aix, and will no doubt guess that I am here now. Shall I go to her or shall I write? I resolved to write, and I told her in my letter that I should await her reply at Marseilles. I gave the letter to my late nurse, with some money to insure its being dispatched at once, and drove on to Marseilles where I alighted at an obscure inn, not wishing to be recognized. I had scarcely got out of my carriage when I saw Madame Schizza, Nina’s sister. She had left Barcelona with her husband. They had been at Marseilles three or four days and were going to Leghorn. Madame Schizza was alone at the moment, her husband having gone out; and as I was full of curiosity I begged her to come up to my room while my dinner was getting ready. “What is your sister doing? Is she still at Barcelona?” “Yes; but she will not be there long, for the bishop will not have her in the town or the diocese, and the bishop is stronger than the viceroy. She only returned to Barcelona on the plea that she wished to pass through Catalonia of her way home, but she does not need to stay there for nine or ten months on that account. She will have to leave in a month for certain, but she is not much put out, as the viceroy is sure to keep her wherever she goes, and she may eventually succeed in ruining him. In the meanwhile she is revelling in the bad repute she has gained for her lover.” “I know something of her peculiarities; but she cannot dislike a man who has made her rich.” “Rich! She has only got her diamonds. Do you imagine this monster capable of any feelings of gratitude? She is not a human being, and no one knows her as I do. She has made the count commit a hundred acts of injustice so that all Spain may talk of her, and know that she has made herself mistress of his body and soul, and all he has. The worse his actions are, the more certain she feels that people will talk of her, and that is all she wants. Her obligations to me are beyond counting, for she owes me all, even to her existence, and instead of continuing my husband in her service she has sent him about his business.” “Then I wonder how she came to treat me so generously.” “If you knew all, you would not feel grateful to her.” “Tell me all, then.” “She only paid for your keep at the inn and in prison to make people believe you were her lover, and to shame the count. All Barcelona knows that you were assassinated at her door, and that you were fortunate enough to run the fellow through.” “But she cannot have been the instigator of, or even the accomplice in, the plot for my assassination. That’s against nature.” “I dare say, but everything in Nina is against nature. What I tell you is the bare truth, for I was a witness of it all. Whenever the viceroy visited her she wearied him with praise of your gallantry, your wit, your noble actions, comparing you with the Spaniards, greatly to their disadvantage. “The count got impatient and told her to talk of something else, but she would not; and at last he went away, cursing your name. Two days before you came to grief he left her, saying,— “‘Valga me Dios! I will give you a pleasure you do not expect.’ “I assure you that when we heard the pistol-shot after you had gone, she remarked, without evincing the slightest emotion, that the shot was the pleasure her rascally Spaniard had promised her. “I said that you might be killed. “‘All the worse for the count,’ she replied, ‘for his turn will come also.’ “Then she began laughing like a madcap; she was thinking of the excitement your death would cause in Barcelona. “At eight o’clock the following day, your man came and told her that you had been taken to the citadel; and I will say it to her credit, she seemed relieved to hear you were alive.” “My man—I did not know that he was in correspondence with her.” “No, I suppose not; but I assure you the worthy man was very much attached to you.” “I am sure he was. Go on.” “Nina then wrote a note to your landlord. She did not shew it me, but it no doubt contained instructions to supply you with everything. “The man told us that he had seen your sword all red with blood, and that your cloak had a bullet hole through it. She was delighted, but do not think it was because she loved you; she was glad you had escaped that you might take your revenge. However, she was troubled by the pretext on which the count had had you arrested.