Quirico, where there was an excellent inn, that night, so he proposed waiting at Bon Couvent till four o’clock. We had therefore six hours wherein to rest. The English girl was astonished at not finding her husband, and looked for him in all directions. I noticed her, and asked the landlord what had become of him. He informed us that he had breakfasted and baited his horse, and had then gone on, leaving word that he would await us at St. Quirico and order supper there. I thought it all very strange, but I said nothing. The poor girl begged me to excuse her husband’s behaviour. “He has given me a mark of his confidence, madam, and there is nothing to be offended at.” The landlord asked me if the vetturino paid my expenses, and I answered in the negative; and the girl then told him to ask the vetturino if he was paying for her. The man came in, and to convince the lady that providing her with meals was not in the contract, he gave her a paper which she handed to me to read. It was signed “Comte de l’Etoile.” When she was alone with me my young companion begged me only to order dinner for myself. I understood her delicacy, and this made her all the dearer to me. “Madame,” said I, “you must please look upon me as an old friend. I guess you have no money about you, and that you wish to fast from motives of delicacy. Your husband shall repay me, if he will have it so. If I told the landlord to only prepare dinner for myself I should be dishonouring the count, yourself possibly, and myself most of all.” “I feel you are right sir. Let dinner be served for two, then; but I cannot eat, for I feel ill, and I hope you will not mind my lying on the bed for a moment.” “Pray do not let me disturb you. This is a pleasant room, and they can lay the table in the next. Lie down, and sleep if you can, and I will order dinner to be ready by two. I hope you will be feeling better by then.” I left her without giving her time to answer, and went to order dinner. I had ceased to believe the Frenchman to be the beautiful Englishwoman’s husband, and began to think I should have to fight him. The case, I felt certain, was one of elopement and seduction; and, superstitious as usual, I was sure that my good genius had sent me in the nick of time to save her and care for her, and in short to snatch her from the hands of her infamous deceiver. Thus I fondled my growing passion. I laughed at the absurd title the rascal had given himself, and when the thought struck me that he had possibly abandoned her to me altogether, I made up my mind that he deserved hanging. Nevertheless, I resolved never to leave her. I lay down on the bed, and as I built a thousand castles in the air I fell asleep. The landlady awoke me softly, saying that three o’clock had struck. “Wait a moment before you bring in the dinner. I will go and see if the lady is awake.” I opened the door gently, and saw she was still asleep, but as I closed the door after me the noise awoke her, and she asked if I had dined. “I shall not take any dinner, madam, unless you do me the honour to dine with me. You have had a five hours’ rest, and I hope you are better.” “I will sit down with you to dinner, as you wish it.” “That makes me happy, and I will order dinner to be served forthwith.” She ate little, but what little she did eat was taken with a good appetite. She was agreeably surprised to see the beefsteaks and plum pudding, which I had ordered for her. When the landlady came in, she asked her if the cook was an Englishman, and when she heard that I had given directions for the preparation of her national dishes, she seemed full of gratitude. She cheered up, and congratulated me on my appetite, while I encouraged her to drink some excellent Montepulciano and Montefiascone. By dessert she was in good spirits, while I felt rather excited. She told me, in Italian, that she was born in London, and I thought I should have died with joy, in reply to my question whether she knew Madame Cornelis, she replied that she had known her daughter as they had been at school together. “Has Sophie grown tall?” “No, she is quite small, but she is very pretty, and so clever.” “She must now be seventeen.” “Exactly. We are of the same age.” As she said this she blushed and lowered her eyes. “Are you ill?” “Not at all. I scarcely like to say it, but Sophie is the very image of you.” “Why should you hesitate to say so? It has been remarked to me before. No doubt it is a mere coincidence. How long ago is it since you have seen her?” “Eighteen months; she went back to her mother’s, to be married as it was said, but I don’t know to whom.” “Your news interests me deeply.” The landlord brought me the bill, and I saw a note of three pains which her husband had spent on himself and his horse. “He said you would pay,” observed the landlord. The Englishwoman blushed. I paid the bill, and we went on. I was delighted to see her blushing, it proved she was not a party to her husband’s proceedings. I was burning with the desire to know how she had left London and had met the Frenchman, and why they were going to Rome; but I did not want to trouble her by my questions, and I loved her too well already to give her any pain.