Don Pascal Latilla could not be jealous of the attentions paid me by his idol, for I was a stranger, and they were my due; while her husband prided himself on his freedom from those vulgar prejudices to which so many Neapolitans are subject. In the midst of all this gaiety I could not help stealing many a furtive glance towards Callimena. I addressed her again and again, and she answered me politely but so briefly as to give me no opportunity of displaying my powers in the way of persiflage. I asked if her name was her family name or a pseudonym. “It is my baptismal name.” “It is Greek; but, of course, you know what it means?” “No.” “Mad beauty, or fair moon.” “I am glad to say that I have nothing in common with my name.” “Have you any brothers or sisters?” “I have only one married sister, with whom you may possibly be acquainted.” “What is her name, and who is her husband?” “Her husband is a Piedmontese, but she does not live with him.” “Is she the Madame Slopis who travels with Aston?” “Exactly.” “I can give you good news of her.” After dinner I asked Agatha how she came to know Callimena. “My husband is her godfather.” “What is her exact age?” “Fourteen.” “She’s a simple prodigy! What loveliness!” “Her sister is still handsomer.” “I have never seen her.” A servant came in and said M. Goudar would like to have a little private conversation with the advocate. The advocate came back in a quarter of an hour, and informed me that Goudar had given him the two hundred ounces, and that he had returned him the ring. “Then that’s all settled, and I am very glad of it. I have certainly made an eternal enemy of him, but that doesn’t trouble me much.” We began playing, and Agatha made me play with Callimena, the freshness and simplicity of whose character delighted me. I told her all I knew about her sister, and promised I would write to Turin to enquire whether she were still there. I told her that I loved her, and that if she would allow me, I would come and see her. Her reply was extremely satisfactory. The next morning I went to wish her good day. She was taking a music lesson from her master. Her talents were really of a moderate order, but love made me pronounce her performance to be exquisite. When the master had gone, I remained alone with her. The poor girl overwhelmed me with apologies for her dress, her wretched furniture, and for her inability to give me a proper breakfast. “All that makes you more desirable in my eyes, and I am only sorry that I cannot offer you a fortune.” As I praised her beauty, she allowed me to kiss her ardently, but she stopped my further progress by giving me a kiss as if to satisfy me. I made an effort to restrain my ardour, and told her to tell me truly whether she had a lover. “Not one.” “And have you never had one?” “Never.” “Not even a fancy for anyone?” “No, never.” “What, with your beauty and sensibility, is there no man in Naples who has succeeded in inspiring you with desire?” “No one has ever tried to do so. No one has spoken to me as you have, and that is the plain truth.” “I believe you, and I see that I must make haste to leave Naples, if I would not be the most unhappy of men.” “What do you mean?” “I should love you without the hope of possessing you, and thus I should be most unhappy.” “Love me then, and stay. Try and make me love you. Only you must moderate your ecstacies, for I cannot love a man who cannot exercise self-restraint.” “As just now, for instance?” “Yes. If you calm yourself I shall think you do so for my sake, and thus love will tread close on the heels of gratitude.” This was as much as to tell me that though she did not love me yet I had only to wait patiently, and I resolved to follow her advice. I had reached an age which knows nothing of the impatient desires of youth. I gave her a tender embrace, and as I was getting up to go I asked her if she were in need of money. This question made her blush, and she said I had better ask her aunt, who was in the next room. I went in, and was somewhat astonished to find the aunt seated between two worthy Capuchins, who were talking small talk to her while she worked at her needle. At a little distance three young girls sat sewing. The aunt would have risen to welcome me, but I prevented her, asked her how she did, and smilingly congratulated her on her company. She smiled back, but the Capuchins sat as firm as two stocks, without honouring me with as much as a glance. I took a chair and sat down beside her. She was near her fiftieth year, though some might have doubted whether she would ever see it again; her manner was good and honest, and her features bore the traces of the beauty that time had ruined. Although I am not a prejudiced man, the presence of the two evil-smelling monks annoyed me extremely. I thought the obstinate way in which they stayed little less than an insult. True they were men like myself, in spite of their goats’ beards and dirty frocks, and consequently were liable to the same desires as I; but for all that I found them wholly intolerable. I could not shame them without shaming the lady, and they knew it; monks are adepts at such calculations. I have travelled all over Europe, but France is the only country in which I saw a decent and respectable clergy. At the end of a quarter of an hour I could contain myself no longer, and told the aunt that I wished to say something to her in private.