He told me several times that if a woman proposed payment for her favours, his disgust would expel his love in a moment. As he said, and rightly, he was as good a man as Madame Goudar was a woman. This was distinctly a good point in his character; no woman who gave her favours in exchange for presents received could hope to dupe him. Sara’s maxims were diametrically opposed to his; she looked on her love as a bill of exchange. Stratico was delighted to see him engaged in this intrigue, for the chief point in dealing with him was to keep him occupied. If he had no distractions he took refuge in bad company or furious riding. He would sometimes ride ten or twelve stages at full gallop, utterly ruining the horses. He was only too glad to make his uncle pay for them, as he swore he was an old miser. After I had made up my mind to leave Naples, I had a visit from Don Pascal Latilla, who brought with him the Abbé Galiani, whom I had known at Paris. It may be remembered that I had known his brother at St. Agatha’s, where I had stayed with him, and left him Donna Lucrezia Castelli. I told him that I had intended to visit him, and asked if Lucrezia were still with him. “She lives at Salerno,” said he, “with her daughter the Marchioness C——.” I was delighted to hear the news; if it had not been for the abbé’s visit, I should never have heard what had become of these ladies. I asked him if he knew the Marchioness C——. “I only know the marquis,” he replied, “he is old and very rich.” That was enough for me. A couple of days afterwards Morosini invited Sara, Goudar, two young gamesters, and Medini, to dinner. The latter had not yet given up hopes of cheating the chevalier in one way or another. Towards the end of dinner it happened that Medini differed in opinion from me, and expressed his views in such a peremptory manner that I remarked that a gentleman would be rather more choice in his expressions. “Maybe,” he replied, “but I am not going to learn manners from you.” I constrained myself, and said nothing, but I was getting tired of his insolence; and as he might imagine that my resentment was caused by fear, I determined on disabusing him. As he was taking his coffee on the balcony overlooking the sea, I came up to him with my cup in my hand, and said that I was tired of the rudeness with which he treated me in company. “You would find me ruder still,” he replied, “if we could meet without company.” “I think I could convince you of your mistake if we could have a private meeting.” “I should very much like to see you do it.” “When you see me go out, follow me, and don’t say a word to anyone.” “I will not fail.” I rejoined the company, and walked slowly towards Pausilippo. I looked back and saw him following me; and as he was a brave fellow, and we both had our swords, I felt sure the thing would soon be settled. As soon as I found myself in the open country, where we should not be interrupted, I stopped short. As he drew near I attempted a parley, thinking that we might come to a more amicable settlement; but the fellow rushed on me with his sword in one hand and his hat in the other. I lunged out at him, and instead of attempting to parry he replied in quart. The result was that our blades were caught in each other’s sleeves; but I had slit his arm, while his point had only pierced the stuff of my coat. I put myself on guard again to go on, but I could see he was too weak to defend himself, so I said if he liked I would give him quarter. He made no reply, so I pressed on him, struck him to the ground, and trampled on his body. He foamed with rage, and told me that it was my turn this time, but that he hoped I would give him his revenge. “With pleasure, at Rome, and I hope the third lesson will be more effectual than the two I have already given you.” He was losing a good deal of blood, so I sheathed his sword for him and advised him to go to Goudar’s house, which was close at hand, and have his wound attended to. I went back to “Crocielles” as if nothing had happened. The chevalier was making love to Sara, and the rest were playing cards. I left the company an hour afterwards without having said a word about my duel, and for the last time I supped with Callimena. Six years later I saw her at Venice, displaying her beauty and her talents on the boards of St. Benedict’s Theatre. I spent a delicious night with her, and at eight o’clock the next day I went off in a post-chaise without taking leave of anyone. I arrived at Salerno at two o’clock in the afternoon, and as soon as I had taken a room I wrote a note to Donna Lucrezia Castelli at the Marquis C——’s. I asked her if I could pay her a short visit, and begged her to send a reply while I was taking my dinner. I was sitting down to table when I had the pleasure of seeing Lucrezia herself come in. She gave a cry of delight and rushed to my arms. This excellent woman was exactly my own age, but she would have been taken for fifteen years younger. After I had told her how I had come to hear about her I asked for news of our daughter. “She is longing to see you, and her husband too; he is a worthy old man, and will be so glad to know you.” “How does he know of my existence?” “Leonilda has mentioned your name a thousand times during the five years they have been married.