He lived with Roland, opposite St. Charles, where Madame Gabrieli, the famous singer, nicknamed la Coghetta, lived. As soon as the Florentine was gone, I went to St. Paul’s in hot haste, for I longed to see what reception I should have from the two vestals I had initiated so well. When they appeared I noticed a great change. Emilie had become gay, while Armelline looked sad. I told the former that she should have her dispensation in three days, and her warrant for four hundred crowns in a week. “At the same time,” I added, “you shall have your grant of two hundred crowns.” At this happy tidings she ran to tell the superioress of her good fortune. As soon as I was alone with Armelline I took her hands and covered them with kisses, begging her to resume her wonted gaiety. “What shall I do,” said she, “without Emilie? What shall I do when you are gone? I am unhappy. I love myself no longer.” She shed tears which pierced me to the heart. I swore I would not leave Rome till I had seen her married with a dowry of a thousand crowns. “I don’t want a thousand crowns, but I hope you will see me married as you say; if you do not keep your promise it will kill me.” “I would die rather than deceive you; but you on your side must forgive my love, which, perhaps, made me go too far the other evening.” “I forgive you everything if you will remain my friend.” “I will; and now let me kiss your beautiful lips.” After this first kiss, which I took as a pledge of certain victory, she wiped away her tears; and soon after Emilie reappeared, accompanied by the superioress, who treated me with great cordiality. “I want you to do as much for Armelline’s new friend as you have done for Emilie,” said she. “I will do everything in my power,” I replied; “and in return I hope you will allow me to take these young ladies to the theatre this evening.” “You will find them ready; how could I refuse you anything?” When I was alone with the two friends I apologised for having disposed of them without their consent. “Our consent!” said Emilie: “we should be ungrateful indeed if we refused you anything after all you have done for us.” “And you, Armelline, will you withstand my love?” “No; so long as it keeps within due bounds. No more blind man’s buff!” “And it is such a nice game! You really grieve me.” “Well, invent another game,” said Emilie. Emilie was becoming ardent, somewhat to my annoyance, for I was afraid Armelline would get jealous. I must not be charged with foppishness on this account. I knew the human heart. When I left them I went to the Tordinona Theatre and took a box, and then ordered a good supper at the same inn, not forgetting the oysters, though I felt sure I should not require their aid. I then called on a musician, whom I requested to get me three tickets for a ball, where no one would be likely to know me. I went home with the idea of dining by myself, but I found a note from the Marchioness d’Aout, reproaching me in a friendly manner for not having broken bread with her, and inviting me to dinner. I resolved to accept the invitation, and when I got to the house I found the young Florentine already there. It was at this dinner that I found out many of his good qualities, and I saw that Donna Leonilda had not said too much in his favour. Towards the end of the meal the marchioness asked why I had not stayed till the end of the opera. “Because the young ladies were getting tired.” “I have found out that they do not belong to the Venetian ambassador’s household. “You are right, and I hope you will pardon my small fiction.” “It was an impromptu effort to avoid telling me who they are, but they are known.” “Then I congratulate the curious.” “The one I addressed deserves to excite general curiosity; but if I were in your place I should make her use a little powder.” “I have not the authority to do so, and if I had, I would not trouble her for the world.” I was pleased with the Florentine, who listened to all this without saying a word. I got him to talk of England and of his business. He told me that he was going to Florence to take possession of his inheritance, and to get a wife to take back with him to London. As I left, I told him that I could not have the pleasure of calling on him till the day after next, as I was prevented by important business. He told me I must come at dinnertime, and I promised to do so. Full of love and hope, I went for my two friends, who enjoyed the whole play without any interruption. When we alighted at the inn I told the coachman to call for me at two, and we then went up to the third floor, where we sat before the fire while the oysters were being opened. They did not interest us as they had done before. Emilie had an important air; she was about to make a good marriage. Armelline was meek, smiling, and affectionate, and reminded me of the promise I had given her. I replied by ardent kisses which reassured her, while they warned her that I would fain increase the responsibility I had already contracted towards her. However, she seemed resigned, and I sat down to table in a happy frame of mind. As Emilie was on the eve of her wedding, she no doubt put down my neglect of her to my respect for the sacrament of matrimony. When supper was over I got on the sofa with Armelline, and spent three hours which might have been delicious if I had not obstinately endeavoured to obtain the utmost favour.