As I was too jealous to leave Armelline to her own devices, I refused to dance, preferring to watch her. I was not at all uneasy about Scholastica, who was with her betrothed. About half-past eleven the Marchioness d’Aout, who was delighted with Armelline, and possibly had her protege’s happiness in view, asked me, in a tone that amounted to a command, to sup with her in company with my two companions. “I cannot have the honour,” I replied, “and my two companions know the reason.” “That is as much as to say,” said the marchioness, “that he will do as you please,” turning to Armelline as she spoke. I addressed myself to Armelline, and observed smilingly that she knew perfectly well that she must be home by half-past twelve at latest. “True,” she replied, “but you can do as you please.” I replied somewhat sadly that I did not feel myself at liberty to break my word, but that she could make me do even that if she chose. Thereupon the marchioness, her husband, the abbé, and the Florentine, urged her to use her power to make me break my supposed word, and Armelline actually began to presume to do so. I was bursting with rage; but making up my mind to do anything rather than appear jealous, I said simply that I would gladly consent if her friend would consent also. “Very well,” said she, with a pleased air that cut me to the quick, “go and ask her.” That was enough for me. I went to Scholastica and told her the circumstances in the presence of her lover, begging her to refuse without compromising me. Her lover said I was perfectly right, but Scholastica required no persuasion, telling me that she had quite made up her mind not to sup with anyone. She came with me, and I told her to speak to Armelline apart before saying anything to the others. I led Scholastica before the marchioness, bewailing my want of success. Scholastica told Armelline that she wanted to say a few words to her aside, and after a short conversation they came back looking sorry, and Armelline told the marchioness that she found it would be impossible for them to come. The lady did not press us any longer, so we went away. I told Scholastica’s intended to keep what had passed to himself, and asked him to dine with me on the day after Ash Wednesday. The night was dark, and we walked to the place where I had ordered the carriage to be in waiting. To me it was as if I had come out of hell, and on the way to the inn I did not speak a word, not even answering the questions which the too-simple Armelline addressed to me in a voice that would have softened a heart of stone. Scholastica avenged me by reproaching her for having obliged me to appear either rude or jealous, or a breaker of my word. When we got to the inn Armelline changed my jealous rage into pity; her eyes swam with tears, which Scholastica’s home truths had drawn forth. The supper was ready, so they had no time to change their dress. I was sad enough, but I could not bear to see Armelline sad also. I resolved to do my best to drive away her melancholy, even though I suspected that it arose from love of the Florentine. The supper was excellent, and Scholastica did honour to it, while Armelline, contrary to her wont, scarcely touched a thing. Scholastica was charming. She embraced her friend, and told her to be merry with her, as I had become the friend of her betrothed, and she was sure I would do as much for her as I had done for Emilie. She blessed the ball and the chance which had brought him there. In short, she did her best to shew Armelline that with my love she had no reason to be sad. Armelline dared not disclose the true cause of her sadness. The fact was, that she wanted to get married, and the handsome Florentine was the man to her liking. Our supper came to an end, and still Armelline was gloomy. She only drank one glass of punch, and as she had eaten so little I would not try and make her drink more for fear lest it should do her harm. Scholastica, on the other hand, took such a fancy to this agreeable fluid, which she tasted for the first time, that she drank deeply, and was amazed to find it mounting to her head instead of descending to her stomach. In this pleasant state, she felt it was her duty to reconcile Armelline and myself, and to assure us that we might be as tender as we liked without minding her presence. Getting up from table and standing with some difficulty, she carried her friend to the sofa, and caressed her in such a way that Armelline could not help laughing, despite her sadness. Then she called me and placed her in my arms. I caressed her, and Armelline, though she did not repulse me, did not respond as Scholastica had hoped. I was not disappointed; I did not think it likely she would grant now what she had refused to grant when I had held her in my arms for those hours whilst Emilie was fast asleep. However, Scholastica began to reproach me with my coldness, though I deserved no blame at all on this score. I told them to take off their men’s clothes, and to dress themselves as women. I helped Scholastica to take off her coat and waistcoat, and then aided Armelline in a similar manner. When I brought them their chemises, Armelline told me to go and stand by the fire, and I did so. Before long a noise of kissing made me turn round, and I saw Scholastica, on whom the punch had taken effect, devouring Armelline’s breast with kisses.