I felt rather curious to see the company, and with the idea of shewing Zanovitch that I was not likely to become a charge on his purse, I dressed myself magnificently once more. As I had expected, I found Medini and his mistress there, with two foreign ladies and their attendant cavaliers, and a fine-looking and well-dressed Venetian, between thirty-five and forty, whom I would not have recognized if Zanovitch had not told me his name, Alois Zen. “Zen was a patrician name, and I felt obliged to ask what titles I ought to give him. “Such titles as one old friend gives another, though it is very possible you do not recollect me, as I was only ten years old when we saw each other last.” Zen then told me he was the son of the captain I had known when I was under arrest at St. Andrews. “That’s twenty-eight years ago; but I remember you, though you had not had the small-pox in those days.” I saw that he was annoyed by this remark, but it was his fault, as he had no business to say where he had known me, or who his father was. He was the son of a noble Venetian—a good-for-nothing in every sense of the word. When I met him at Florence he had just come from Madrid, where he had made a lot of money by holding a bank at faro in the house of the Venetian ambassador, Marco Zen. I was glad to meet him, but I found out before the dinner was over that he was completely devoid of education and the manners of a gentleman; but he was well content with the one talent he possessed, namely, that of correcting the freaks of fortune at games of chance. I did not wait to see the onslaught of the cheats on the dupes, but took my leave while the table was being made ready. Such was my life during the seven months which I spent at Florence. After this dinner I never saw Zen, or Medini, or Zanovitch, except by chance in the public places. Here I must recount some incidents which took place towards the middle of December. Lord Lincoln, a young man of eighteen, fell in love with a Venetian dancer named Lamberti, who was a universal favourite. On every night when the opera was given the young Englishman might be seen going to her camerino, and everyone wondered why he did not visit her at her own house, where he would be certain of a good welcome, for he was English, and therefore rich, young, and handsome. I believe he was the only son of the Duke of Newcastle. Zanovitch marked him down, and in a short time had become an intimate friend of the fair Lamberti. He then made up to Lord Lincoln, and took him to the lady’s house, as a polite man takes a friend to see his mistress. Madame Lamberti, who was in collusion with the rascal, was not niggardly of her favours with the young Englishman. She received him every night to supper with Zanovitch and Zen, who had been presented by the Sclav, either because of his capital, or because Zanovitch was not so accomplished a cheat. For the first few nights they took care to let the young nobleman win. As they played after supper, and Lord Lincoln followed the noble English custom of drinking till he did not know his right hand from his left, he was quite astonished on waking the next morning to find that luck had been as kind to him as love. The trap was baited, the young lord nibbled, and, as may be expected, was finally caught. Zen won twelve thousand pounds of him, and Zanovitch lent him the money by installments of three and four hundred louis at a time, as the Englishman had promised his tutor not to play, on his word of honour. Zanovitch won from Zen what Zen won from the lord, and so the game was kept up till the young pigeon had lost the enormous sum of twelve thousand guineas. Lord Lincoln promised to pay three thousand guineas the next day, and signed three bills of exchange for three thousand guineas each, payable in six months, and drawn on his London banker. I heard all about this from Lord Lincoln himself when we met at Bologna three months later. The next morning the little gaming party was the talk of Florence. Sasso Sassi, the banker, had already paid Zanovitch six thousand sequins by my lord’s orders. Medini came to see me, furious at not having been asked to join the party, while I congratulated myself on my absence. My surprise may be imagined, when, a few days after, a person came up to my room, and ordered me to leave Florence in three days and Tuscany in a week. I was petrified, and called to my landlord to witness the unrighteous order I had received. It was December 28th. On the same date, three years before, I had received orders to leave Barcelona in three days. I dressed hastily and went to the magistrate to enquire the reason for my exile, and on entering the room I found it was the same man who had ordered me to leave Florence eleven years before. I asked him to give me his reasons, and he replied coldly that such was the will of his highness. “But as his highness must have his reasons, it seems to me that I am within my rights in enquiring what they are.” “If you think so you had better betake yourself to the prince; I know nothing about it. He left yesterday for Pisa, where he will stay three days; you can go there.” “Will he pay for my journey?” “I should doubt it, but you can see for yourself.” “I shall not go to Pisa, but I will write to his highness if you will promise to send on the letter.” “I will do so immediately, for it is my duty.” “Very good; you shall have the letter before noon tomorrow, and before day-break I shall be in the States of the Church.” “There’s no need for you to hurry yourself.” “There is a very great hurry.