I cannot breathe the air of a country where liberty is unknown and the sovereign breaks his word; that is what I am going to write to your master.” As I was going out I met Medini, who had come on the same business as myself. I laughed, and informed him of the results of my interview, and how I had been told to go to Pisa. “What! have you been expelled, too?” “Yes.” “What have you done?” “Nothing.” “Nor I. Let us go to Pisa.” “You can go if you like, but I shall leave Florence tonight.” When I got home I told my landlord to get me a carriage and to order four post-horses for nightfall, and I then wrote the following letter to the grand duke: “My Lord; The thunder which Jove has placed in your hands is only for the guilty; in launching it at me you have done wrong. Seven months ago you promised that I should remain unmolested so long as I obeyed the laws. I have done so scrupulously, and your lordship has therefore broken your word. I am merely writing to you to let you know that I forgive you, and that I shall never give utterance to a word of complaint. Indeed I would willingly forget the injury you have done me, if it were not necessary that I should remember never to set foot in your realms again. The magistrate tells me that I can go and see you at Pisa, but I fear such a step would seem a hardy one to a prince, who should hear what a man has to say before he condemns him, and not afterwards. “I am, etc.” When I had finished the letter I sent it to the magistrate, and then I began my packing. I was sitting down to dinner when Medini came in cursing Zen and Zanovitch, whom he accused of being the authors of his misfortune, and of refusing to give him a hundred sequins, without which he could not possibly go. “We are all going to Pisa,” said he, “and cannot imagine why you do not come, too.” “Very good,” I said, laughingly, “but please to leave me now as I have to do my packing.” As I expected, he wanted me to lend him some money, but on my giving him a direct refusal he went away. After dinner I took leave of M. Medici and Madame Dennis, the latter of whom had heard the story already. She cursed the grand duke, saying she could not imagine how he could confound the innocent with the guilty. She informed me that Madame Lamberti had received orders to quit, as also a hunchbacked Venetian priest, who used to go and see the dancer but had never supped with her. In fact, there was a clean sweep of all the Venetians in Florence. As I was returning home I met Lord Lincoln’s governor; whom I had known at Lausanne eleven years before. I told him of what had happened to me through his hopeful pupil getting himself fleeced. He laughed, and told me that the grand duke had advised Lord Lincoln not to pay the money he had lost, to which the young man replied that if he were not to pay he should be dishonoured since the money he had lost had been lent to him. In leaving Florence I was cured of an unhappy love which would doubtless have had fatal consequences if I had stayed on. I have spared my readers the painful story because I cannot recall it to my mind even now without being cut to the heart. The widow whom I loved, and to whom I was so weak as to disclose my feelings, only attached me to her triumphal car to humiliate me, for she disdained my love and myself. I persisted in my courtship, and nothing but my enforced absence would have cured me. As yet I have not learnt the truth of the maxim that old age, especially when devoid of fortune, is not likely to prove attractive to youth. I left Florence poorer by a hundred sequins than when I came there. I had lived with the most careful economy throughout the whole of my stay. I stopped at the first stage within the Pope’s dominions, and by the last day but one of the year I was settled at Bologna, at “St. Mark’s Hotel.” My first visit was paid to Count Marulli, the Florentine charge d’affaires. I begged him to write and tell his master, that, out of gratitude for my banishment, I should never cease to sing his praises. As the count had received a letter containing an account of the whole affair, he could not quite believe that I meant what I said. “You may think what you like,” I observed, “but if you knew all you would see that his highness has done me a very great service though quite unintentionally.” He promised to let his master know how I spoke of him. On January 1st, 1772, I presented myself to Cardinal Braneaforte, the Pope’s legate, whom I had known twenty years before at Paris, when he had been sent by Benedict XVI. with the holy swaddling clothes for the newly-born Duke of Burgundy. We had met at the Lodge of Freemasons, for the members of the sacred college were by no means afraid of their own anathemas. We had also some very pleasant little suppers with pretty sinners in company with Don Francesco Sensate and Count Ranucci. In short, the cardinal was a man of wit, and what is called a bon vivant. “Oh, here you are!” cried he, when he saw me; “I was expecting you.” “How could you, my lord? Why should I have come to Bologna rather than to any other place?” “For two reasons. In the first place because Bologna is better than many other places, and besides I flatter myself you thought of me.