The consul came in just then, and said that the loss would be a mere trifle for Venice, while the first-shipwreck would cost more to Trieste than ten years’ duty. The consul seemed to enjoy the whole thing, but that was the part he had to play. In all small trading towns like Trieste, people make a great account of trifles. I went to dine with the consul, who privately confessed his doubts and fears on the matter. I asked him how the Venetians would parry the blow, and he replied,— “They will have a number of very learned consultations, and then they will do nothing at all, and the Austrians will send their goods wherever they please.” “But the Government is such a wise one.” “Or rather has the reputation of wisdom.” “Then you think it lives on its reputation?” “Yes; like all your mouldy institutions, they continue to be simply because they have been. Old Governments are like those ancient dykes which are rotten at the base, and only stay in position by their weight and bulk.” The consul was in the right. He wrote to his chief the same day, and in the course of the next week he heard that their excellencies had received information of the matter some time ago by extraordinary channels. For the present his duties would be confined to sending in any additional information on the same subject. “I told you so,” said the consul; “now, what do you think of the wisdom of our sages?” “I think Bedlam of Charenton were their best lodging.” In three weeks the consul received orders to give me another grant of a hundred ducats, and to allow me ten sequins a month, to encourage me to deserve well of the State. From that time I felt sure I should be allowed to return in the course of the year, but I was mistaken, for I had to wait till the year following. This new present, and the monthly payment of ten sequins put me at my ease, for I had expensive tastes of which I could not cure myself. I felt pleased at the thought that I was now in the pay of the Tribunal which had punished me, and which I had defied. It seemed to me a triumph, and I determined to do all in my power for the Republic. Here I must relate an amusing incident, which delighted everyone in Trieste. It was in the beginning of summer. I had been eating sardines by the sea-shore, and when I came home at ten o’clock at night I was astonished to be greeted by a girl whom I recognized as Count Strasoldo’s maid. The count was a handsome young man, but poor like most of that name; he was fond of expensive pleasures, and was consequently heavily in debt. He had a small appointment which brought him in an income of six hundred florins, and he had not the slightest difficulty in spending a year’s pay in three months. He had agreeable manners and a generous disposition, and I had supped with him in company with Baron Pittoni several times. He had a girl in his service who was exquisitely pretty, but none of the count’s friends attempted her as he was very jealous. Like the rest, I had seen and admired her, I had congratulated the count on the possession of such a treasure in her presence, but I had never addressed a word to her. Strasoldo had just been summoned to Vienna by Count Auersperg who liked him, and had promised to do what he could for him. He had got an employment in Poland, his furniture had been sold, he had taken leave of everyone, and nobody doubted that he would take his pretty maid with him. I thought so too, for I had been to wish him a pleasant journey that morning, and my astonishment at finding the girl in my room may be imagined. “What do you want, my dear?” I asked. “Forgive me, sir, but I don’t want to go with Strasoldo, and I thought you would protect me. Nobody will be able to guess where I am, and Strasoldo will be obliged to go by himself. You will not be so cruel as to drive me away?” “No, dearest.” “I promise you I will go away to-morrow, for Strasoldo is going to leave at day-break.” “My lovely Leuzica (this was her name), no one would refuse you an asylum, I least of all. You are safe here, and nobody shall come in without your leave. I am only too happy that you came to me, but if it is true that the count is your lover you may be sure he will not go so easily. He will stay the whole of to-morrow at least, in the hope of finding you again.” “No doubt he will look for me everywhere but here. Will you promise not to make me go with him even if he guesses that I am with you?” “I swear I will not.” “Then I am satisfied.” “But you will have to share my bed.” “If I shall not inconvenience you, I agree with all my heart.” “You shall see whether you inconvenience me or not. Undress, quick! But where are your things?” “All that I have is in a small trunk behind the count’s carriage, but I don’t trouble myself about it.” “The poor count must be raging at this very moment.” “No, for he will not come home till midnight. He is supping with Madame Bissolotti, who is in love with him.” In the meantime Leuzica had undressed and got into bed. In a moment I was beside her, and after the severe regimen of the last eight months I spent a delicious night in her arms, for of late my pleasures had been few. Leuzica was a perfect beauty, and worthy to be a king’s mistress; and if I had been rich I would have set up a household that I might retain her in my service.