“And who will do my room?” I asked. “The maid.” “Then she has a key of her own?” “There is no need for a key, as your door has no lock, but you can bolt yourself in at night.” I could only laugh, whether from ill humour or amusement I really cannot say. However, I made no remark to the man. I began my task, but in half an hour I was so unfortunate as to put out the candle whilst snuffing it. I could not roam about the house in the dark searching for a light, as I did not know my way, so I went to bed in the dark more inclined to swear than to laugh. Fortunately the bed was a good one, and as I had expected it to be uncomfortable I went to sleep in a more tranquil humour. In the morning nobody came to attend on me, so I got up, and after putting away my papers I went to say good morning to my host in dressing-gown and nightcap. I found him under the hand of one of his men who served him as a valet. I told him I had slept well, and had come to breakfast with him; but he said he never took breakfast, and asked me, politely enough, not to trouble to come and see him in the morning as he was always engaged with his tenants, who were a pack of thieves. He then added that as I took breakfast he would give orders to the cook to send me up coffee whenever I liked. “You will also be kind enough to tell your man to give me a touch with his comb after he has done with you.” “I wonder you did not bring a servant.” “If I had guessed that I should be troubling you, I should certainly have brought one.” “It will not trouble me but you, for you will be kept waiting.” “Not at all. Another thing I want is a lock to my door, for I have important papers for which I am responsible, and I cannot lock them up in my trunk whenever I leave my room.” “Everything is safe in my house.” “Of course, but you see how absurd it would be for you to be answerable in case any of my papers were missing. I might be in the greatest distress, and yet I should never tell you of it.” He remained silent for some time, and then ordered his man to tell the priest to put a lock on my door and give me the key. While he was thinking, I noticed a taper and a book on the table beside his bed. I went up to it, and asked politely if I might see what kind of reading had beguiled him to sleep. He replied as politely, requesting me not to touch it. I withdrew immediately, telling him with a smile that I felt sure that it was a book of prayers, but that I would never reveal his secret. “You have guessed what it is,” he said, laughing. I left him with a courteous bow, begging him to send me his man and a cup of coffee, chocolate, or broth, it mattered not which. I went back to my room meditating seriously on his strange behaviour, and especially on the wretched tallow candle which was given me, while he had a wax taper. My first idea was to leave the house immediately, for though I had only fifty ducats in my possession my spirit was as high as when I was a rich man; but on second thoughts I determined not to put myself in the wrong by affronting him in such a signal manner. The tallow candle was the most grievous wrong, so I resolved to ask the man whether he had not been told to give me wax lights. This was important, as it might be only a piece of knavery or stupidity on the part of the servant. The man came in an hour with a cup of coffee, sugared according to his taste or that of the cook. This disgusted me, so I let it stay on the table, telling him, with a burst of laughter (if I had not laughed I must have thrown the coffee in his face), that that was not the way to serve breakfast. I then got ready to have my hair done. I asked him why he had brought me a wretched tallow candle instead of two wax lights. “Sir,” the worthy man replied, humbly, “I could only give you what the priest gave me; I received a wax taper for my master and a candle for you.” I was sorry to have vexed the poor fellow, and said no more, thinking the priest might have taken a fancy to economise for the count’s profit or his own. I determined to question him on the subject. As soon as I was dressed I went out to walk off my bad humour. I met the priest-steward, who had been to the locksmith. He told me that the man had no ready-made locks, but he was going to fit my door with a padlock, of which I should have the key. “Provided I can lock my door,” I said, “I care not how it’s done.” I returned to the house to see the padlock fitted, and while the locksmith was hammering away I asked the priest why he had given a tallow candle instead of one or two wax tapers. “I should never dare to give you tapers, sir, without express orders from the count.” “I should have thought such a thing would go without saying.” “Yes, in other houses, but here nothing goes without saying. I have to buy the tapers and he pays me, and every time he has one it is noted down.” “Then you can give me a pound of wax lights if I pay you for them?” “Of course, but I think I must tell the count, for you know .