I rushed upon him, and we fell together, while the poor woman made her escape. I had only my dressing-gown on, and here I was at a disadvantage; for civilized man is a poor creature without his clothes. However, I held the stick with one hand, while I squeezed his throat with the other. On his side he clung to the stick with his right hand, and pulled my hair with the left. At last his tongue started out and he had to let go. I was on my feet again in an instant, and seizing the stick I aimed a sturdy blow at his head, which, luckily for him, he partially parried. I did not strike again, so he got up, ran a little way, and began to pick up stones. However, I did not wait to be pelted, but shut myself in my room and lay down on the bed, only sorry that I had not choked the villain outright. As soon as I had rested I looked to my pistols, dressed myself, and went out with the intention of looking for some kind of conveyance to take me back to Gorice. Without knowing it I took a road that led me to the cottage of the poor widow, whom I found looking calm though sad. She told me she had received most of the blows on her shoulders, and was not much hurt. What vexed her was that the affair would become public, as two peasants had seen the count beating her, and our subsequent combat. I gave her two sequins, begging her to come and see me at Gorice, and to tell me where I could find a conveyance. Her sister offered to shew me the way to a farm, where I could get what I wanted. On the way she told me that Torriano had been her sister’s enemy before the death of her husband because she rejected all his proposals. I found a good conveyance at the farm, and the man promised to drive me in to Gorice by dinner-time. I gave him half-a-crown as an earnest, and went away, telling him to come for me. I returned to the count’s and had scarcely finished getting ready when the conveyance drove up. I was about to put my luggage in it, when a servant came from the count asking me to give him a moment’s conversation. I wrote a note in French, saying that after what had passed we ought not to meet again under his roof. A minute later he came into my room, and shut the door, saying,— “As you won’t speak to me, I have come to speak to you.” “What have you got to say?” “If you leave my house in this fashion you will dishonour me, and I will not allow it.” “Excuse me, but I should very much like to see how you are going to prevent me from leaving your house.” “I will not allow you to go by yourself; we must go together.” “Certainly; I understand you perfectly. Get your sword or your pistols, and we will start directly. There is room for two in the carriage.” “That won’t do. You must dine with me, and then we can go in my carriage.” “You make a mistake. I should be a fool if I dined with you when our miserable dispute is all over the village; to-morrow it will have reached Gorice.” “If you won’t dine with me, I will dine with you, and people may say what they like. We will go after dinner, so send away that conveyance.” I had to give in to him. The wretched count stayed with me till noon, endeavouring to persuade me that he had a perfect right to beat a country-woman in the road, and that I was altogether in the wrong. I laughed, and said I wondered how he derived his right to beat a free woman anywhere, and that his pretence that I being her lover had no right to protect her was a monstrous one. “She had just left my arms,” I continued, “was I not therefore her natural protector? Only a coward or a monster like yourself would have remained indifferent, though, indeed, I believe that even you would have done the same.” A few minutes before we sat down to dinner he said that neither of us would profit by the adventure, as he meant the duel to be to the death. “I don’t agree with you as far as I am concerned,” I replied; “and as to the duel, you can fight or not fight, as you please; for my part I have had satisfaction. If we come to a duel I hope to leave you in the land of the living, though I shall do my best to lay you up for a considerable time, so that you may have leisure to reflect on your folly. On the other hand, if fortune favours you, you may act as you please.” “We will go into the wood by ourselves, and my coachman shall have orders to drive you wherever you like if you come out of the wood by yourself.” “Very good indeed; and which would you prefer—swords or pistols?” “Swords, I think.” “Then I promise to unload my pistols as soon as we get into the carriage.” I was astonished to find the usually brutal count become quite polite at the prospect of a duel. I felt perfectly confident myself, as I was sure of flooring him at the first stroke by a peculiar lunge. Then I could escape through Venetian territory where I was not known. But I had good reasons for supposing that the duel would end in smoke as so many other duels when one of the parties is a coward, and a coward I believed the count to be. We started after an excellent dinner; the count having no luggage, and mine being strapped behind the carriage. I took care to draw the charges of my pistols before the count.