I bowed my thanks, and put the letter in my pocket: but he told me that he was himself a great lover of news, and that I could read my letter. I opened it; it was from Yusuf, who announced the death of Count de Bonneval. Hearing the name of the worthy Yusuf, the general asked me to tell him my adventure with his wife. I could not now refuse, and I began a story which amused and interested the general and his friends for an hour or so, but which was from beginning to end the work of my imagination. Thus I continued to respect the privacy of Yusuf, to avoid implicating the good fame of Madame F——, and to shew myself in a light which was tolerably advantageous to me. My story, which was full of sentiment, did me a great deal of honour, and I felt very happy when I saw from the expression of Madame F——’s face that she was pleased with me, although somewhat surprised. When we found ourselves again in her house she told me, in the presence of M. D—— R——, that the story I had related to the general was certainly very pretty, although purely imaginary, that she was not angry with me, because I had amused her, but that she could not help remarking my obstinacy in refusing compliance with her wishes. Then, turning to M. D—— R——, she said, “M. Casanova pretends that if he had given an account of his meeting with Yusuf’s wife without changing anything everybody would think that I allowed him to entertain me with indecent stories. I want you to give your opinion about it. Will you,” she added, speaking to me, “be so good as to relate immediately the adventure in the same words which you have used when you told me of it?” “Yes, madam, if you wish me to do so.” Stung to the quick by an indiscretion which, as I did not yet know women thoroughly, seemed to me without example, I cast all fears of displeasing to the winds, related the adventure with all the warmth of an impassioned poet, and without disguising or attenuating in the least the desires which the charms of the Greek beauty had inspired me with. “Do you think,” said M. D—— R—— to Madame F——, “that he ought to have related that adventure before all our friends as he has just related it to us?” “If it be wrong for him to tell it in public, it is also wrong to tell it to me in private.” “You are the only judge of that: yes, if he has displeased you; no, if he has amused you. As for my own opinion, here it is: He has just now amused me very much, but he would have greatly displeased me if he had related the same adventure in public.” “Then,” exclaimed Madame F——, “I must request you never to tell me in private anything that you cannot repeat in public.” “I promise, madam, to act always according to your wishes.” “It being understood,” added M. D—— R——, smiling, “that madam reserves all rights of repealing that order whenever she may think fit.” I was vexed, but I contrived not to show it. A few minutes more, and we took leave of Madame F——. I was beginning to understand that charming woman, and to dread the ordeal to which she would subject me. But love was stronger than fear, and, fortified with hope, I had the courage to endure the thorns, so as to gather the rose at the end of my sufferings. I was particularly pleased to find that M. D—— R—— was not jealous of me, even when she seemed to dare him to it. This was a point of the greatest importance. A few days afterwards, as I was entertaining her on various subjects, she remarked how unfortunate it had been for me to enter the lazzaretto at Ancona without any money. “In spite of my distress,” I said, “I fell in love with a young and beautiful Greek slave, who very nearly contrived to make me break through all the sanitary laws.” “How so?” “You are alone, madam, and I have not forgotten your orders.” “Is it a very improper story?” “No: yet I would not relate it to you in public.” “Well,” she said, laughing, “I repeal my order, as M. D—— R—— said I would. Tell me all about it.” I told my story, and, seeing that she was pensive, I exaggerated the misery I had felt at not being able to complete my conquest. “What do you mean by your misery? I think that the poor girl was more to be pitied than you. You have never seen her since?” “I beg your pardon, madam; I met her again, but I dare not tell you when or how.” “Now you must go on; it is all nonsense for you to stop. Tell me all; I expect you have been guilty of some black deed.” “Very far from it, madam, for it was a very sweet, although incomplete, enjoyment.” “Go on! But do not call things exactly by their names. It is not necessary to go into details.” Emboldened by the renewal of her order, I told her, without looking her in the face, of my meeting with the Greek slave in the presence of Bellino, and of the act which was cut short by the appearance of her master. When I had finished my story, Madame F—— remained silent, and I turned the conversation into a different channel, for though I felt myself on an excellent footing with her, I knew likewise that I had to proceed with great prudence. She was too young to have lowered herself before, and she would certainly look upon a connection with me as a lowering of her dignity. Fortune which had always smiled upon me in the most hopeless cases, did not intend to ill-treat me on this occasion, and procured me, on that very same day, a favour of a very peculiar nature.