And in the event of my death I did not want such a document to fall into any other hands but yours.” “A great proof of your extreme delicacy, certainly, but I think you ought to have reserved the right of taking it out of the notary’s custody yourself.” “I did not forsee the possibility of calling for it myself.” “Yet it was a very likely thing. Then I can send word to the notary to transmit it to me?” “Certainly, madam; you alone can claim it.” She sent to the notary, who brought the note himself. She tore the envelope open, and found only a piece of paper besmeared with ink, quite illegible, except her own name, which had not been touched. “You have acted,” she said, “most nobly; but you must agree with me that I cannot be certain that this piece of paper is really my note of hand, although I see my name on it.” “True, madam; and if you are not certain of it, I confess myself in the wrong.” “I must be certain of it, and I am so; but you must grant that I could not swear to it.” “Granted, madam.” During the following days it struck me that her manner towards me was singularly altered. She never received me in her dishabille, and I had to wait with great patience until her maid had entirely dressed her before being admitted into her presence. If I related any story, any adventure, she pretended not to understand, and affected not to see the point of an anecdote or a jest; very often she would purposely not look at me, and then I was sure to relate badly. If M. D—— R—— laughed at something I had just said, she would ask what he was laughing for, and when he had told her, she would say it was insipid or dull. If one of her bracelets became unfastened, I offered to fasten it again, but either she would not give me so much trouble, or I did not understand the fastening, and the maid was called to do it. I could not help shewing my vexation, but she did not seem to take the slightest notice of it. If M. D—— R—— excited me to say something amusing or witty, and I did not speak immediately, she would say that my budget was empty, laughing, and adding that the wit of poor M. Casanova was worn out. Full of rage, I would plead guilty by my silence to her taunting accusation, but I was thoroughly miserable, for I did not see any cause for that extraordinary change in her feelings, being conscious that I had not given her any motive for it. I wanted to shew her openly my indifference and contempt, but whenever an opportunity offered, my courage would forsake me, and I would let it escape. One evening M. D—— R—— asking me whether I had often been in love, I answered, “Three times, my lord.” “And always happily, of course.” “Always unhappily. The first time, perhaps, because, being an ecclesiastic, I durst not speak openly of my love. The second, because a cruel, unexpected event compelled me to leave the woman I loved at the very moment in which my happiness would have been complete. The third time, because the feeling of pity, with which I inspired the beloved object, induced her to cure me of my passion, instead of crowning my felicity.” “But what specific remedies did she use to effect your cure?” “She has ceased to be kind.” “I understand she has treated you cruelly, and you call that pity, do you? You are mistaken.” “Certainly,” said Madame F——, “a woman may pity the man she loves, but she would not think of ill-treating him to cure him of his passion. That woman has never felt any love for you.” “I cannot, I will not believe it, madam.” “But are you cured?” “Oh! thoroughly; for when I happen to think of her, I feel nothing but indifference and coldness. But my recovery was long.” “Your convalescence lasted, I suppose, until you fell in love with another.” “With another, madam? I thought I had just told you that the third time I loved was the last.” A few days after that conversation, M. D—— R—— told me that Madame F—— was not well, that he could not keep her company, and that I ought to go to her, as he was sure she would be glad to see me. I obeyed, and told Madame F—— what M. D—— R—— had said. She was lying on a sofa. Without looking at me, she told me she was feverish, and would not ask me to remain with her, because I would feel weary. “I could not experience any weariness in your society, madam; at all events, I can leave you only by your express command, and, in that case, I must spend the next four hours in your ante-room, for M. D— R—— has told me to wait for him here.” “If so, you may take a seat.” Her cold and distant manner repelled me, but I loved her, and I had never seen her so beautiful, a slight fever animating her complexion which was then truly dazzling in its beauty. I kept where I was, dumb and as motionless as a statue, for a quarter of an hour. Then she rang for her maid, and asked me to leave her alone for a moment. I was called back soon after, and she said to me, “What has become of your cheerfulness?” “If it has disappeared, madam, it can only be by your will. Call it back, and you will see it return in full force.” “What must I do to obtain that result?” “Only be towards me as you were when I returned from Casopo. I have been disagreeable to you for the last four months, and as I do not know why, I feel deeply grieved.” “I am always the same: in what do you find me changed?” “Good heavens!