“Speak to me,” she said at last; “you only look at me without uttering a single word. You have sacrificed yourself for me, because my brother would have taken you with him to his lady-love, who, to judge from what he says, must be as beautiful as an angel.” “I have seen that lady.” “I suppose she is very witty.” “She may be so; but I have no opportunity of knowing, for I have never visited her, and I do not intend ever to call upon her. Do not therefore imagine, beautiful C—— C——, that I have made the slightest sacrifice for your sake.” “I was afraid you had, because as you did not speak I thought you were sad.” “If I do not speak to you it is because I am too deeply moved by your angelic confidence in me.” “I am very glad it is so; but how could I not trust you? I feel much more free, much more confident with you than with my brother himself. My mother says it is impossible to be mistaken, and that you are certainly an honest man. Besides, you are not married; that is the first thing I asked my brother. Do you recollect telling me that you envied the fate of the man who would have me for his wife? Well, at that very moment I was thinking that your wife would be the happiest woman in Venice.” These words, uttered with the most candid artlessness, and with that tone of sincerity which comes from the heart, had upon me an effect which it would be difficult to describe; I suffered because I could not imprint the most loving kiss upon the sweet lips which had just pronounced them, but at the same time it caused me the most delicious felicity to see that such an angel loved me. “With such conformity of feelings,” I said, “we would, lovely C——, be perfectly happy, if we could be united for ever. But I am old enough to be your father.” “You my father? You are joking! Do you know that I am fourteen?” “Do you know that I am twenty-eight?” “Well, where can you see a man of your age having a daughter of mine? If my father were like you, he would certainly never frighten me; I could not keep anything from him.” The hour to go to the theatre had come; we landed, and the performance engrossed all her attention. Her brother joined us only when it was nearly over; it had certainly been a part of his calculation. I took them to an inn for supper, and the pleasure I experienced in seeing the charming girl eat with a good appetite made me forget that I had had no dinner. I hardly spoke during the supper, for love made me sick, and I was in a state of excitement which could not last long. In order to excuse my silence, I feigned to be suffering from the toothache. After supper, P—— C—— told his sister that I was in love with her, and that I should certainly feel better if she would allow me to kiss her. The only answer of the innocent girl was to offer me her laughing lips, which seemed to call for kisses. I was burning; but my respect for that innocent and naive young creature was such that I only kissed her cheek, and even that in a manner very cold in appearance. “What a kiss!” exclaimed P—— C——. “Come, come, a good lover’s kiss!” I did not move; the impudent fellow annoyed me; but his sister, turning her head aside sadly, said, “Do not press him; I am not so happy as to please him.” That remark gave the alarm to my love; I could no longer master my feelings. “What!” I exclaimed warmly, “what! beautiful C——, you do not condescend to ascribe my reserve to the feeling which you have inspired me with? You suppose that you do not please me? If a kiss is all that is needed to prove the contrary to you, oh! receive it now with all the sentiment that is burning in my heart!” Then folding her in my arms, and pressing her lovingly against my breast, I imprinted on her mouth the long and ardent kiss which I had so much wished to give her; but the nature of that kiss made the timid dove feel that she had fallen into the vulture’s claws. She escaped from my arms, amazed at having discovered my love in such a manner. Her brother expressed his approval, while she replaced her mask over her face, in order to conceal her confusion. I asked her whether she had any longer any doubts as to my love. “You have convinced me,” she answered, “but, because you have undeceived me, you must not punish me.” I thought that this was a very delicate answer, dictated by true sentiment; but her brother was not pleased with it, and said it was foolish. We put on our masks, left the inn, and after I had escorted them to their house I went home deeply in love, happy in my inmost soul, yet very sad. The reader will learn in the following chapters the progress of my love and the adventures in which I found myself engaged. CHAPTER XII Progress of My Intrigue with the Beautiful C. C. The next morning P—— C—— called on me with an air of triumph; he told me that his sister had confessed to her mother that we loved one another, and that if she was ever to be married she would be unhappy with any other husband. “I adore your sister,” I said to him; “but do you think that your father will be willing to give her to me?” “I think not; but he is old. In the mean time, love one another. My mother has given her permission to go to the opera this evening with us.” “Very well, my dear friend, we must go.” “I find myself under the necessity of claiming a slight service at your hands.” “Dispose of me.” “There is some excellent Cyprus wine to be sold very cheap, and I can obtain a cask of it against my bill at six months.