As you have only seen her once, I suppose you would not recognize her portrait?” “I should, indeed, as her face left a strong impression on my mind.” “Wait a minute.” He got up from the table, went out, and returned a minute after with a box containing eight or ten miniatures, all in the same style, namely, with hair in disorder and bare necks. “These,” said I, “are rare charms, with which you have doubtless a near acquaintance?” “Yes, and if you recognize any of them be discreet.” “You need not be afraid. Here are three I recognize, and this looks like M—— M——; but confess that you may have been deceived—at least, that you did not have her in the convent or here, for there are women like her.” “Why do you think I have been deceived? I have had her here in her religious habit, and I have spent a whole night with her; and it was to her individually that I sent a purse containing five hundred sequins. I gave fifty to the good procurer.” “You have, I suppose, visited her in the parlour, after having her here?” “No, never, as she was afraid her titular lover might hear of it. You know that was the French ambassador.” “But she only saw him in the parlour.” “She used to go to his house in secular dress whenever he wanted her. I was told that by the man who brought her here.” “Have you had her several times?” “Only once and that was enough, but I can have her whenever I like for a hundred sequins.” “All that may be the truth, but I would wager five hundred sequins that you have been deceived.” “You shall have your answer in three days.” I was perfectly certain, I repeat, that the whole affair was a piece of knavery; but it was necessary to have it proved, and I shuddered when the thought came into my head that after all it might be a true story. In this case I should have been freed from a good many obligations, but I was strongly persuaded of her innocence. At all events, if I were to find her guilty (which was amongst possible occurrences), I resigned myself to lose five hundred sequins as the price of this horrible discovery and addition to my experience of life. I was full of restless anguish—the worst, perhaps, of the torments of the mind. If the honest Englishman had been the victim of a mystification, or rather knavery, my regard for M—— M——’s honour compelled me to find a way to undeceive him without compromising her; and such was my plan, and thus fortune favoured me. Three or four days after, Mr. Murray told the doctor that he wished to see me. We went to him, and he greeted me thus: “I have won; for a hundred sequins I can have the fair nun! “Alas!” said I, “there go my five hundred sequins.” “No, not five hundred, my dear fellow, for I should be ashamed to win so much of you, but the hundred she would cost me. If I win, you shall pay for my pleasure, and if I lose I shall give her nothing.” “How is the problem to be solved?” “My Mercury tells me that we must wait for a day when masks are worn. He is endeavouring at present to find out a way to convince both of us; for otherwise neither you nor I would feel compelled to pay the wager, and if I really have M. M. my honour would not allow me to let her suspect that I had betrayed the secret.” “No, that would be an unpardonable crime. Hear my plan, which will satisfy us both; for after it has been carried out each of us will be sure that he has fairly won or fairly lost. “As soon as you have possessed yourself of the real or pretended nun, leave her on some pretext, and meet me in a place to be agreed upon. We will then go together to the convent, and I will ask for M. M. “Will seeing her and speaking to her convince you that the woman you have left at home is a mere impostor?” “Perfectly, and I shall pay my wager with the greatest willingness.” “I may say the same. If, when I summon M. M. to the parlour, the lay-sister tells us she is ill or busy, we will go, and the wager will be yours; you will sup with the fair, and I will go elsewhere.” “So be it; but since all this will be at nighttime, it is possible that when you ask for her, the sister will tell you that no one can be seen at such an hour.” “Then I shall lose.” “You are quite sure, then, that if she be in the convent she will come down?” “That’s my business. I repeat, if you don’t speak to her, I shall hold myself to have lost a hundred sequins, or a thousand if you like.” “One can’t speak plainer than that, my dear fellow, and I thank you beforehand.” “The only thing I ask you is to come sharp to time; and not to come too late for a convent.” “Will an hour after sunset suit you?” “Admirably.” “I shall also make it my business to compel my masked mistress to stop where she is, even though it be M. M. herself.” “Some won’t have long to wait, if you will take her to a casino which I myself possess at Muran, and where I secretly keep a girl of whom I am amorous. I will take care that she shall not be there on the appointed day, and I will give you the key of the casino. I shall also see that you find a delicate cold supper ready.” “That is admirable, but I must be able to point out the place to my Mercury.” “True!