Give me a word in reply.” My feelings on reading the above may be guessed. I was petrified with astonishment and could only write, “I will be with you at eleven o’clock.” No one should say that he has passed through great misfortunes unless they have proved too great for his mind to bear. The confidence of Mdlle. X. C. V. shewed me that she was in need of support. I congratulated myself on having the preference, and I vowed to do my best for her did it cost me my life. These were the thoughts of a lover, but for all that I could not conceal from myself the imprudence of the step she had taken. In such cases as these there is always the choice between speaking or writing, and the only feeling which can give the preference to writing is false shame, at bottom mere cowardice. If I had not been in love with her, I should have found it easier to have refused my aid in writing than if she had spoken to me, but I loved her to distraction. “Yes,” said I to myself, “she can count on me. Her mishap makes her all the dearer to me.” And below this there was another voice, a voice which whispered to me that if I succeeded in saving her my reward was sure. I am well aware that more than one grave moralist will fling stones at me for this avowal, but my answer is that such men cannot be in love as I was. I was punctual to my appointment, and found the fair unfortunate at the door of the hotel. “You are going out, are you? Where are you going?” “I am going to mass at the Church of the Augustinians.” “Is this a saint’s day?” “No; but my mother makes me go every day.” “I will come with you.” “Yes do, give me your arm; we will go into the cloisters and talk there.” Mdlle. X. C. V. was accompanied by her maid, but she knew better than to be in the way, so we left her in the cloisters. As soon as we were alone she said to me, “Have you read my letter?” “Yes, of course; here it is, burn it yourself.” “No, keep it, and do so with your own hands.” “I see you trust in me, and I assure you I will not abuse your trust.” “I am sure you will not. I am four months with child; I can doubt it no longer, and the thought maddens me!” “Comfort yourself, we will find some way to get over it.” “Yes; I leave all to you. You must procure an abortion.” “Never, dearest! that is a crime!” “Alas! I know that well; but it is not a greater crime than suicide, and there lies my choice: either to destroy the wretched witness of my shame, or to poison myself. For the latter alternative I have everything ready. You are my only friend, and it is for you to decide which it shall be. Speak to me! Are you angry that I have not gone to the Chevalier Farsetti before you?” She saw my astonishment, and stopped short, and tried to wipe away the tears which escaped from her eyes. My heart bled for her. “Laying the question of crime on one side,” said I, “abortion is out of our power. If the means employed are not violent they are uncertain, and if they are violent they are dangerous to the mother. I will never risk becoming your executioner; but reckon on me, I will not forsake you. Your honour is as dear to me as your life. Be calm, and henceforth think that the peril is mine, not yours. Make up your mind that I shall find some way of escape, and that there will be no need to cut short that life, to preserve which I would gladly die. And allow me to say that when I read your note I felt glad, I could not help it, that at such an emergency you chose me before all others to be your helper. You will find that your trust was not given in vain, for no one loves you as well as I, and no one is so fain to help you. Later you shall begin to take the remedies I will get for you, but I warn you to be on your guard, for this is a serious matter—one of life and death. Possibly you have already told somebody about it—your maid or one of your sisters?” “I have not told anybody but you, not even the author of my shame. I tremble when I think what my mother would do and say if she found out my situation. I am afraid she will draw her conclusions from my shape.” “So far there is nothing to be observed in that direction, the beauty of the outline still remains intact.” “But every day increases its size, and for that reason we must be quick in what we do. You must find a surgeon who does not know my name and take me to him to be bled.” “I will not run the risk, it might lead to the discovery of the whole affair. I will bleed you myself; it is a simple operation.” “How grateful I am to you! I feel as if you had already brought me from death to life. What I should like you to do would be to take me to a midwife’s. We can easily go without attracting any notice at the first ball at the opera.” “Yes, sweetheart, but that step is not necessary, and it might lead to our betrayal.” “No, no, in this great town there are midwives in every quarter, and we should never be known; we might keep our masks on all the time. Do me this kindness. A midwife’s opinion is certainly worth having.” I could not refuse her request, but I made her agree to wait till the last ball, as the crowd was always greater, and we had a better chance of going out free from observation.