“This mixture,” said I, “moistening several times a day the opening of the womb, weakens it to such a degree that the foetus is expelled by its own weight.” To these details I added lengthy arguments to persuade her of the efficacy of this cure, and then, seeing that she was absorbed in thought, I said that as her lover was away she would want a sure friend to live in the same house with her, and give her the dose according to the directions of Paracelsus. All at once she burst into a peal of laughter, and asked me if I had been jesting all the time. I thought the game was up. The remedy was an absurd one, on the face of it; and if her common sense told her as much it would also make her guess my motive. But what limits are there to the credulity of a woman in her condition? “If you wish,” said I, persuasively, “I will give you the manuscript where all that I have said is set down plainly. I will also shew you what Boerhaeve thinks about it.” I saw that these words convinced her; they had acted on her as if by magic, and I went on while the iron was hot. “The aroph,” said I, “is the most powerful agent for bringing on menstruation.” “And that is incompatible with the state I am now in; so the aroph should procure me a secret deliverance. Do you know its composition?” “Certainly; it is quite a simple preparation composed of certain ingredients which are well known to me, and which have to be made into a paste with butter or virgin honey. But this composition must touch the orifice of the uterus at a moment of extreme excitement.” “But in that case it seems to me that the person who gives the dose must be in love.” “Certainly, unless he is a mere animal requiring only physical incentives.” She was silent for some time, for though she was quick-witted enough, a woman’s natural modesty and her own frankness, prevented her from guessing at my artifice. I, too, astonished at my success in making her believe this fable, remained silent. At last, breaking the silence, she said, sadly, “The method seems to me an excellent one, but I do not think I ought to make use of it.” Then she asked me if the aroph took much time to make. “Two hours at most,” I answered, “if I succeed in procuring English saffron, which Paracelsus prefers to the Oriental saffron.” At that moment her mother and the Chevalier Farsetti came in, and after some talk of no consequence she asked me to stay to dinner. I was going to decline, when Mdlle. X. C. V. said she would sit at table, on which I accepted; and we all left the room to give her time to dress. She was not long in dressing, and when she appeared her figure seemed to me quite nymph-like. I was astonished, and could scarcely believe my eyes, and I was on the point of thinking that I had been imposed on, for I could not imagine how she could manage to conceal the fulness I had felt with my own hands. M. Farsetti sat by her, and I by the mother. Mdlle. X. C. V., whose head was full of the aroph, asked her neighbour, who gave himself out for a great chemist, if he knew it. “I fancy I know it better than anyone,” answered Farsetti, in a self-satisfied manner. “What is it good for?” “That is too vague a question.” “What does the word mean?” “It is an Arabic word, of which I do not know the meaning; but no doubt Paracelsus would tell us.” “The word,” said I, “is neither Arabic nor Hebrew, nor, indeed, of any language at all. It is a contraction which conceals two other words.” “Can you tell us what they are?” said the chevalier. “Certainly; aro comes from aroma, and ph is the initial of philosophorum.” “Did you get that out of Paracelsus?” said Farsetti, evidently annoyed. “No, sir; I saw it in Boerhaave.” “That’s good,” said he, sarcastically; “Boerhaave says nothing of the sort, but I like a man who quotes readily.” “Laugh, sir, if you like,” said I, proudly, “but here is the test of what I say; accept the wager if you dare. I don’t quote falsely, like persons who talk of words being Arabic.” So saying I flung a purse of gold on the table, but Farsetti, who was by no means sure of what he was saying, answered disdainfully that he never betted. However, Mdlle. X. C. V., enjoying his confusion, told him that was the best way never to lose, and began to joke him on his Arabic derivation. But, for my part, I replaced my purse in my pocket, and on some trifling pretext went out and sent my servant to Madame d’Urfe’s to get me Boerhaave. On my return to the room I sat down again at table, and joined gaily in the conversation till the return of my messenger with the book. I opened it, and as I had been reading it the evening before I soon found the place I wanted, and giving it to him begged him to satisfy himself that I had quoted not readily but exactly. Instead of taking the book, he got up and went out without saying a word. “He has gone away in a rage,” said the mother; “and I would wager anything that he will not come back again.” “I wager he will,” said the daughter, “he will honour us with his agreeable company before to-morrow’s sun has set.” She was right. From that day Farsetti became my determined enemy, and let no opportunity slip of convincing me of his hatred. After dinner we all went to Passy to be present at a concert given by M. de la Popeliniere, who made us stay to supper.