After the reception I had met with I could without affectation pose as offended, and visit the family no more, for whether I were guilty or innocent, Madame X. C. V. must see that her manner had been plain enough for me to know what it meant. I was looking out of my window at an early hour two or three days afterwards, when a coach stopped before my door, and Madame X C V-, escorted by M. Farsetti got out. I made haste to meet them on the stair, and welcomed them, saying I was glad they had done me the honour to come and take breakfast with me, pretending not to know of any other reason. I asked them to sit down before the fire, and enquired after the lady’s health; but without noticing my question she said that she had not come to take breakfast, but to have some serious conversation. “Madam,” said I, “I am your humble servant; but first of all pray be seated.” She sat down, while Farsetti continued standing. I did not press him, but turning towards the lady begged her to command me. “I am come here,” she said, “to ask you to give me my daughter if she be in your power, or to tell me where she is.” “Your daughter, madam? I know nothing about her! Do you think me capable of a crime?” “I do not accuse you of abducting her; I have not come here to reproach you nor to utter threats, I have only come to ask you to shew yourself my friend. Help me to get my daughter again this very day; you will give me my life. I am certain that you know all. You were her only confidant and her only friend; you passed hours with her every day; she must have told you of her secret. Pity a bereaved mother! So far no one knows of the facts; give her back to me and all shall be forgotten, and her honour saved.” “Madam, I feel for you acutely, but I repeat that I know nothing of your daughter.” The poor woman, whose grief touched me, fell at my feet and burst into tears. I was going to lift her from the ground, when Farsetti told her, in a voice full of indignation, that she should blush to humble herself in such a manner before a man of my description. I drew myself up, and looking at him scornfully said, “You insolent scoundrel! What do you mean by talking of me like that?” “Everybody is certain that you know all about it.” “Then they are impudent fools, like you. Get out of my house this instant and wait for me, I will be with you in a quarter of an hour.” So saying, I took the poor chevalier by the shoulders, and giving him sundry shakes I turned him out of the room. He came back and called to the lady to come, too, but she rose and tried to quiet me. “You ought to be more considerate towards a lover,” said she, “for he would marry my daughter now, even after what she has done.” “I am aware of the fact, madam, and I have no doubt that his courtship was one of the chief reasons which made your daughter resolve to leave her home, for she hated him even more than she hated the fermier-general.” “She has behaved very badly, but I promise not to say anything more about marrying her. But I am sure you know all about it, as you gave her fifty louis, without which she could not have done anything.” “Nay, not so.” “Do not deny it, sir; here is the evidence—a small piece of your letter to her.” She gave me a scrap of the letter I had sent the daughter, with the fifty louis for her brother. It contained the following lines, “I hope that these wretched louis will convince you that I am ready to sacrifice everything, my life if need be, to assure you of my affection.” “I am far from disavowing this evidence of my esteem for your daughter, but to justify myself I am obliged to tell you a fact which I should have otherwise kept secret—namely, that I furnished your daughter with this sum to enable her to pay your son’s debts, for which he thanked me in a letter which I can shew you.” “My son?” “Your son, madam.” “I will make you an ample atonement for my suspicions.” Before I had time to make any objection, she ran down to fetch Farsetti, who was waiting in the courtyard, and made him come up and hear what I had just told her. “That’s not a likely tale,” said the insolent fellow. I looked at him contemptuously, and told him he was not worth convincing, but that I would beg the lady to ask her son and see whether I told the truth. “I assure you,” I added, “that I always urged your daughter to marry M. de la Popeliniere.” “How can you have the face to say that,” said Farsetti, “when you talk in the letter of your affection?” “I do not deny it,” said I. “I loved her, and I was proud of my affection for her. This affection, of whatever sort it may have been (and that is not this gentleman’s business), was the ordinary topic of conversation between us. If she had told me that she was going to leave her home, I should either have dissuaded her or gone with her, for I loved her as I do at this moment; but I would never have given her money to go alone.” “My dear Casanova,” said the mother, “if you will help me to find her I shall believe in your innocence.” “I shall be delighted to aid you, and I promise to commence the quest to-day.” “As soon as you have any news, come and tell me.” “You may trust me to do so,” said I, and we parted.