They want to go to bed in good time as they are to leave at day-break.” “Where are they going?” “To Our Lady of Einsiedel to pay their vows.” “Where do they come from?” “From Soleure.” “What are their names?” “I don’t know.” I went to lie down again, and thought how I could approach the fair one of my thoughts. Should I go to Einsiedel, too? But what could I do when I got there? These ladies are going to make their confessions; I could not get into the confessional. What kind of a figure should I cut among the monks? And if I were to meet the abbot on the way, how could I help returning with him? If I had had a trusty friend I would have arranged an ambuscade and carried off my charmer. It would have been an easy task, as she had nobody to defend her. What if I were to pluck up my heart and beg them to let me sup in their company? I was afraid of the three devotees; I should meet with a refusal. I judged that my charmer’s devotion was more a matter of form than any thing else, as her physiognomy declared her to be a lover of pleasure, and I had long been accustomed to read womens’ characters by the play of their features. I did not know which way to turn, when a happy idea came into my head. I went to the passage window and stayed there till the waiter went by. I had him into the room, and began my discourse by sliding a piece of gold into his hand. I then asked him to lend me his green apron, as I wished to wait upon the ladies at supper. “What are you laughing at?” “At your taking such a fancy, sir, though I think I know why.” “You are a sharp fellow.” “Yes, sir, as sharp as most of them; I will get you a new apron. The pretty one asked me who you were.” “What did you tell her?” “I said you were an Italian; that’s all.” “If you will hold your tongue I will double that piece of gold.” “I have asked your Spaniard to help me, sir, as I am single-handed, and supper has to be served at the same time both upstairs and downstairs.” “Very good; but the rascal mustn’t come into the room or he would be sure to laugh. Let him go to the kitchen, bring up the dishes, and leave them outside the door.” The waiter went out, and returned soon after with the apron and Le Duc, to whom I explained in all seriousness what he had to do. He laughed like a madman, but assured me he would follow my directions. I procured a carving-knife, tied my hair in a queue, took off my coat, and put on the apron over my scarlet waistcoat ornamented with gold lace. I then looked at myself in the glass, and thought my appearance mean enough for the modest part I was about to play. I was delighted at the prospect, and thought to myself that as the ladies came from Soleure they would speak French. Le Duc came to tell me that the waiter was going upstairs. I went into the ladies’ room and said, “Supper is about to be served, ladies.” “Make haste about it, then,” said the ugliest of them, “as we have got to rise before day-break.” I placed the chairs round the table and glanced at my fair one, who looked petrified. The waiter came in, and I helped him to put the dishes on the table, and he then said to me, “Do you stay here, as I have to go downstairs.” I took a plate and stood behind a chair facing the lady, and without appearing to look at her I saw her perfectly, or rather I saw nothing else. She was astonished the others did not give me a glance, and they could not have pleased me better. After the soup I hurried to change her plate, and then did the same office for the rest: they helped themselves to the boiled beef. While they were eating, I took a boiled capon and cut it up in a masterly manner. “We have a waiter who knows his work,” said the lady of my thoughts. “Have you been long at this inn?” “Only a few weeks, madam.” “You wait very well.” “Madam is very good.” I had tucked in my superb ruffles of English point lace, but my frilled shirt front of the same material protruded slightly through my vest, which I had not buttoned carefully. She saw it, and said, “Come here a moment.” “What does madam require?” “Let me see it. What beautiful lace!” “So I have been told, madam, but it is very old. An Italian gentleman who was staying here made me a present of it.” “You have ruffles of the same kind, I suppose?” “Yes, madam;” and so saying I stretched out my hand, unbuttoning my waistcoat. She gently drew out the ruffle, and seemed to place herself in a position to intoxicate me with the sight of her charms, although she was tightly laced. What an ecstatic moment! I knew she had recognized me, and the thought that I could not carry the masquerade beyond a certain point was a veritable torment to me. When she had looked a long time, one of the others said, “You are certainly very curious, my dear, one would think you had never seen lace before.” At this she blushed. When the supper was done, the three ugly ladies each went apart to undress, while I took away the dishes, and my heroine began to write. I confess that I was almost infatuated enough to think that she was writing to me; however, I had too high an opinion of her to entertain the idea. As soon as I had taken away the dishes, I stood by the door in the respectful manner becoming the occasion.