In the meanwhile you shall have two footmen, an excellent cook, a housekeeper, and whatever other servants you require. The head of my household will pay them, and you can settle with him afterwards, he is a trustworthy man. I will come now and then and take a spoonful of soup with you, and you shall reward me for what services I may have done you by telling me how things are getting on. I have a great esteem for your charming friend, her discretion is beyond her years, and the pledges of love you will obtain of her will doubtless increase your passion and your esteem. Is she aware that I know all?” “She knows that we are firm friends, and she is glad of it, as she is sure that you will be discreet.” “She may count on my discretion. She is really a delicious woman; I should have been tempted to seduce her myself thirty years ago.” A druggist, whom the doctor had recommended to me, set out the same day to get ready the baths which were to cure me of my imaginary complaint, and in two days I went myself, after having given Le Duc orders to bring my baggage on. I was extremely surprised, on entering the apartment I was to occupy, to see a pretty young woman who came up to me in a modest way to kiss my hand. I stopped her doing so, and my astonished air made her blush. “Do you belong to the household?” I said. “The ambassador’s steward has engaged me as your housekeeper.” “Pardon my surprise. Take me to my room.” She obeyed, and sitting down on the couch I begged her to sit beside me. “That is an honour,” said she, in the most polite and modest way, “I cannot allow myself. I am only your servant.” “Very good, but when I am alone I hope you will consent to take your meals with me, as I don’t like eating by myself.” “I will do so, sir.” “Where is your room?” “This is the one the steward assigned to me, but you have only to speak if you wish me to sleep in another.” “Not at all; it will do very well.” Her room was just behind the recess in which my bed stood. I went in with her and was astonished to see a great display of dresses, and in an adjoining closet all the array of the toilette, linen in abundance, and a good stock of shoes and embroidered slippers. Dumb with surprise I looked at her, and was thoroughly satisfied with what I saw. Nevertheless I determined to subject her to a close examination, as I thought her manners too interesting and her linen too extensive for her to be a mere servant. All at once I was struck with the idea that it might be a trick of the ambassador’s, for a fine woman, well educated, and aged twenty-four or at the most twenty-five years, seemed to me more fitted to be my mistress than my housekeeper. I therefore asked her if she knew the ambassador, and what wages she was to receive. She replied that she only knew M. de Chavigni by sight, and that the steward had promised her two louis a month and her meals in her own room. “Where do you come from? What’s your name?” “I come from Lyons; I am a widow, and my name is Dubois.” “I am delighted to have you in my service. I shall see you again.” She then left me, and I could not help thinking her a very interesting woman, as her speech was as dignified as her appearance. I went down to the kitchen and found the cook, an honest-looking fellow, who told me his name was Rosier. I had known his brother in the service of the French ambassador at Venice. He told me that supper would be ready at nine o’clock. “I never eat by myself,” said I. “So I hear, sir; and I will serve supper accordingly.” “What are your wages?” “Four louis a month.” I then went to see the rest of my people. I found two sharp-looking footmen, and the first of them told me he would see I had what wine I wanted. Then I inspected my bath, which seemed convenient. An apothecary was preparing certain matters for my imaginary cure. Finally, I took a walk round my garden, and before going in I went into the gate-keeper’s, where I found a numerous family, and some girls who were not to be despised. I was delighted to hear everybody speak French, and I talked with them some time. When I got back to my room, I found Le Duc occupied in unpacking my mails; and telling him to give my linen to Madame Dubois, I went into a pretty cabinet adjoining, where there was a desk and all materials necessary for writing. This closet had only one window facing north, but it commanded a view capable of inspiring the finest thoughts. I was amusing myself with the contemplation of this sublime prospect, when I heard a knock at my door. It was my pretty housekeeper, who wore a modest and pleasant expression, and did not in the least resemble a person who bears a complaint. “What can I do for you, madam?” “I hope you will be good enough to order your man to be polite to me?” “Certainly; how has he failed in politeness?” “He might possibly tell you in no respect. He wanted to kiss me, and as I refused he thought himself justified in being rather insolent.” “How?” “By laughing at me. You will pardon me, sir, but I do not like people who make game.” “You are right; they are sure to be either silly or malicious. Make yourself easy; Le Duc shall understand that you are to be treated with respect. You will please sup with me.” Le Duc came in soon after, and I told him to behave respectfully towards Madame Dubois.