My housekeeper came in to dress me, and asked me what had been the doctor’s business. “He must have said something amusing to make you laugh.” “Yes, and I should like to tell you what it was; but before I do so I must ask you if you know what the venereal disease is?” “Yes, I do; Lady Montagu’s footman died of it while I was with her.” “Very good, but you should pretend not to know what it is, and imitate other ladies who assume an ignorance which well becomes them. Poor Le Duc has got this disease.” “Poor fellow, I am sorry for him! Were you laughing at that?” “No; it was the air of mystery assumed by the old doctor which amused me.” “I too have a confidence to make, and when you have heard it you must either forgive me or send me away directly.” “Here is another bother. What the devil can you have done? Quick! tell me.” “Sir, I have robbed you!” “What robbed me? When? How? Can you return me what you have taken? I should not have thought you capable of such a thing. I never forgive a robber or a liar.” “You are too hasty, sir. I am sure you will forgive me, as I robbed you only half an hour ago, and I am now going to return to you the theft.” “You are a singular woman, my dear. Come, I will vouchsafe full forgiveness, but restore immediately what you have taken.” “This is what I stole.” “What! that monster’s letter? Did you read it?” “Yes, of course, for otherwise I should not have committed a theft, should I?” “You have robbed me my secret, then, and that is a thing you cannot give me back. You have done very wrong.” “I confess I have. My theft is all the greater in that I cannot make restoration. Nevertheless, I promise never to speak a word of it all my life, and that ought to gain me my pardon. Give it me quickly.” “You are a little witch. I forgive you, and here is the pledge of my mercy.” So saying I fastened my lips on hers. “I don’t doubt the validity of your pardon; you have signed with a double and a triple seal.” “Yes; but for the future do not read, or so much as touch, any of my papers, as I am the depositary of secrets of which I am not free to dispose.” “Very good; but what shall I do when I find papers on the ground, as that letter was?” “You must pick them up, but not read them.” “I promise to do so.” “Very well, my dear; but you must forget the horrors you have read.” “Listen to me. Allow me to remember what I have read; perhaps you may be the gainer. Let us talk over this affair, which has made my hair stand on end. This monster of immodesty has given you two mortal blows—one in the body and one in the soul; but that is not the worst, as she thinks that Madame’s honour is in her keeping. This, in my thinking, is the worst of all; for, in spite of the affront, your mutual love might continue, and the disease which the infamous creature has communicated to you would pass off; but if the malicious woman carries out her threats, the honour of your charming mistress is gone beyond return. Do not try to make me forget the matter, then, but let us talk it over and see what can be done.” I thought I was dreaming when I heard a young woman in her position reasoning with more acuteness than Minerva displays in her colloquies with Telemachus. She had captured not only my esteem but my respect. “Yes, my dear,” I answered, “let us think over some plan for delivering a woman who deserves the respect of all good men from this imminent danger; and the very thought that we have some chance of success makes me indebted to you. Let us think of it and talk of it from noon to night. Think kindly of Madame——, pardon her first slip, protect her honour, and have pity on my distress. From henceforth call me no more your master but your friend. I will be your friend till death; I swear it to you. What you say is full of wisdom; my heart is yours. Embrace me.” “No, no, that is not necessary; we are young people, and we might perhaps allow ourselves to go astray. I only wish for your friendship; but I do not want you to give it to me for nothing. I wish to deserve it by giving you solid proofs of my friendship for you. In the meanwhile I will tell them to serve dinner, and I hope that after you have eaten something you will be quite well.” I was astonished at her sagacity. It might all be calculated artifice, and her aim might be to seduce me, but I did not trouble myself about that. I found myself almost in love with her, and like to be the dupe of her principles, which would have made themselves felt, even if she had openly shared my love. I decided that I would add no fuel to my flames, and felt certain that they would go out of their own accord. By leaving my love thus desolate it would die of exhaustion. I argued like a fool. I forgot that it is not possible to stop at friendship with a pretty woman whom one sees constantly, and especially when one suspects her of being in love herself. At its height friendship becomes love, and the palliative one is forced to apply to soothe it for a moment only increases its intensity. Such was the experience of Anacreon with Smerdis, and Cleobulus with Badyllus. A Platonist who pretends that one is able to live with a young woman of whom one is fond, without becoming more than her friend, is a visionary who knows not what he says.