But how am I to stick to it that she has peppered me, when I have never spoken to her?” “Do you usually catch that complaint by speaking, booby?” “No, but one speaks in order to catch it, or while one is catching it.” “You spent two hours in the dark with her without a word being spoken, and she will see that she gave this fine present to you while she thought she was giving it to another.” “Ah! I begin to see my way, sir. But if we were in the dark, how was I to know it was she I had to do with? “Thus: you saw her going in by the garden door, and you marked her unobserved. But you may be sure she won’t ask you any of these questions.” “I know what to do now. I will start at once, and I am as curious as you to know what her answer will be. But here’s another question comes into my head. She may try to strike a bargain over the sum I am to ask for my cure; if so, shall I be content with three hundred francs?” “That’s too much for her, take half.” “But it isn’t much for two hours of such pleasure for her and six weeks of such pain for me.” “I will make up the rest to you.” “That’s good hearing. She is going to pay for damage she has done. I fancy I see it all, but I shall say nothing. I would bet it is you to whom she has made this fine present, and that you want to pay her out.” “Perhaps so; but keep your own counsel and set out.” “Do you know I think the rascal is unique,” said my dear Dubois, emerging from her hiding-place, “I had hard work to keep from laughing when he said that if he were pitched out of the window he would not come back so soon. I am sure he will acquit himself better than ever did diplomatist. When he gets to Soleure the monster will have already dispatched her reply to your second letter. I am curious to see how it will turn out.” “To you, my dear, the honour of this comedy belongs. You have conducted this intrigue like a past master in the craft. It could never be taken for the work of a novice.” “Nevertheless, it is my first and I hope it will be my last intrigue.” “I hope she won’t defy me to ‘give evidence of my health’.” “You are quite well so far, I think?” “Yes; and, by the way, it is possible she may only have leucorrhoea. I am longing to see the end of the piece, and to set my mind at rest.” “Will you give Madame an account of our scheme?” “Yes; but I shall not be able to give you the credit you deserve.” “I only want to have credit in your eyes.” “You cannot doubt that I honour you immensely, and I shall certainly not deprive you of the reward that is your due.” “The only reward I ask for is for you to be perfectly open with me.” “You are very wonderful. Why do you interest yourself so much in my affairs? I don’t like to think you are really inquisitive.” “You would be wrong to think that I have a defect which would lower me in my own eyes. Be sure, sir, that I shall only be curious when you are sad.” “But what can have made you feel so generously towards me?” “Only your honourable conduct towards me.” “You touch me profoundly, and I promise to confide in you for the future.” “You will make me happy.” Le Duc had scarcely gone an hour when a messenger on foot came to bring me a second letter from the widow. He also gave me a small packet, telling me that he had orders to wait for a reply. I sent him down to wait, and I gave the letter to Madame Dubois, that she might see what it contained. While she was reading it I leant upon the window, my heart beating violently. “Everything is getting on famously,” cried my housekeeper. “Here is the letter; read it.” “Whether I am being told the truth, or whether I am the victim of a myth arising from your fertile imagination (for which you are too well known all over Europe), I will regard the whole story as being true, as I am not in a position to disprove it. I am deeply grieved to have injured an innocent man who has never done me any ill, and I will willingly pay the penalty by giving him a sum which will be more than sufficient to cure him of the plague with which I infected him. I beg that you will give him the twenty-five louis I am sending you; they will serve to restore him to health, and to make him forget the bitterness of the pleasure I am so sorry to have procured for him. And now are you sufficiently generous to employ your authority as master to enjoin on your man the most absolute secrecy? I hope so, for you have reason to dread my vengeance otherwise. Consider that, if this affair is allowed to transpire, it will be easy for me to give it a turn which may be far from pleasant to you, and which will force the worthy man you are deceiving to open his eyes; for I have not changed my opinion, as I have too many proofs of your understanding with his wife. As I do not desire that we should meet again, I shall go to Lucerne on the pretext of family concerns. Let me know that you have got this letter.” “I am sorry,” I said, “to have sent Le Duc, as the harpy is violent, and I am afraid of something happening to him.” “Don’t be afraid,” she replied, “nothing will happen, and it is better that they should see each other; it makes it more certain.