de Fontenelle in his ‘Plurality of Worlds;’ however, one may say he has succeeded.” “True. If you see him at Bologna, tell him I am expecting to hear from him about Russia. He can address my letters to my banker, Bianchi, at Milan, and they will be sent on to me.” “I will not fail to do so if I see him.” “I have heard that the Italians do not care for his style.” “No; all that he writes is full of French idioms. His style is wretched.” “But do not these French turns increase the beauty of your language?” “They make it insufferable, as French would be mixed with Italian or German even though it were written by M. de Voltaire.” “You are right; every language should preserve its purity. Livy has been criticised on this account; his Latin is said to be tainted with patavinity.” “When I began to learn Latin, the Abbé Lazzarini told me he preferred Livy to Sallust.” “The Abbé Lazzarini, author of the tragedy, ‘Ulisse il giovine’? You must have been very young; I wish I had known him. But I knew the Abbé Conti well; the same that was Newton’s friend, and whose four tragedies contain the whole of Roman history.” “I also knew and admired him. I was young, but I congratulated myself on being admitted into the society of these great men. It seems as if it were yesterday, though it is many years ago; and now in your presence my inferiority does not humiliate me. I wish to be the younger son of all humanity.” “Better so than to be the chief and eldest. May I ask you to what branch of literature you have devoted yourself?” “To none; but that, perhaps, will come afterwards. In the meantime I read as much as I can, and try to study character on my travels.” “That is the way to become learned, but the book of humanity is too vast. Reading a history is the easier way.” “Yes, if history did not lie. One is not sure of the truth of the facts. It is tiring, while the study of the world is amusing. Horace, whom I know by heart, is my guide-book.” “Algarotti, too, is very fond of Horace. Of course you are fond of poetry?” “It is my passion.” “Have you made many sonnets?” “Ten or twelve I like, and two or three thousand which in all probability I have not read twice.” “The Italians are mad after sonnets.” “Yes; if one can call it a madness to desire to put thought into measured harmony. The sonnet is difficult because the thought has to be fitted exactly into the fourteen lines.” “It is Procrustes’ bed, and that’s the reason you have so few good ones. As for us, we have not one; but that is the fault of our language.” “And of the French genius, which considers that a thought when extended loses all its force.” “And you do not think so?” “Pardon me, it depends on the kind of thought. A witty saying, for example, will not make a sonnet; in French or Italian it belongs to the domain of epigram.” “What Italian poet do you like best?” “Ariosto; but I cannot say I love him better than the others, for he is my only love.” “You know the others, though?” “I think I have read them all, but all their lights pale before Ariosto’s. Fifteen years ago I read all you have written against him, and I said that you would retract when you had read his works.” “I am obliged to you for thinking that I had not read them. As a matter of fact I had done so, but I was young. I knew Italian very imperfectly, and being prejudiced by the learned Italians who adore Tasso I was unfortunate enough to publish a criticism of Ariosto which I thought my own, while it was only the echo of those who had prejudiced me. I adore your Ariosto!” “Ah! M. de Voltaire, I breathe again. But be good enough to have the work in which you turned this great man into ridicule excommunicated.” “What use would that be? All my books are excommunicated; but I will give you a good proof of my retractation.” I was astonished! The great man began to recite the two fine passages from the thirty-fourth and thirty-fifth cantos, in which the divine poet speaks of the conversation of Astolpho with St. John and he did it without missing a single line or committing the slightest fault against the laws of prosody. He then pointed out the beauties of the passages with his natural insight and with a great man’s genius. I could not have had anything better from the lips of the most skilled commentators in Italy. I listened to him with the greatest attention, hardly daring to breath, and waiting for him to make a mistake, but I had my trouble for nothing. I turned to the company crying that I was more than astonished, and that all Italy should know what I had seen. “And I, sir,” said the great man, “will let all Europe know of the amends I owe to the greatest genius our continent has produced.” Greedy of the praise which he deserved so well, Voltaire gave me the next day his translation which Ariosto begins thus: “Quindi avvien the tra principi a signori.” At the end of the recitation which gained the applause of all who heard it, although not one of them knew Italian, Madame Denis, his niece, asked me if I thought the passage her uncle had just recited one of the finest the poet had written. “Yes, but not the finest.” “It ought to be; for without it Signor Lodovico would not have gained his apotheosis.” “He has been canonised, then? I was not aware of that.” At these words the laugh, headed by Voltaire, went for Madame Denis. Everybody laughed except myself, and I continued to look perfectly serious.