Without this the cancer would have killed him. His life might well be called an artificial one. I accompanied M. de Voltaire to his bedroom, where he changed his wig and put on another cap, for he always wore one on account of the rheumatism to which he was subject. I saw on the table the Summa of St. Thomas, and among other Italian poets the ‘Secchia Rapita’ of Tassoni. “This,” said Voltaire, “is the only tragicomic poem which Italy has. Tassoni was a monk, a wit and a genius as well as a poet.” “I will grant his poetical ability but not his learning, for he ridiculed the system of Copernicus, and said that if his theories were followed astronomers would not be able to calculate lunations or eclipses.” “Where does he make that ridiculous remark?” “In his academical discourses.” “I have not read them, but I will get them.” He took a pen and noted the name down, and said,— “But Tassoni has criticised Petrarch very ingeniously.” “Yes, but he has dishonoured taste and literature, like Muratori.” “Here he is. You must allow that his learning is immense.” “Est ubi peccat.” Voltaire opened a door, and I saw a hundred great files full of papers. “That’s my correspondence,” said he. “You see before you nearly fifty thousand letters, to which I have replied.” “Have you a copy of your answers?” “Of a good many of them. That’s the business of a servant of mine, who has nothing else to do.” “I know plenty of booksellers who would give a good deal to get hold of your answers. “Yes; but look out for the booksellers when you publish anything, if you have not yet begun; they are greater robbers than Barabbas.” “I shall not have anything to do with these gentlemen till I am an old man.” “Then they will be the scourge of your old age.” Thereupon I quoted a Macaronic verse by Merlin Coccaeus. “Where’s that from?” “It’s a line from a celebrated poem in twenty-four cantos.” “Celebrated?” “Yes; and, what is more, worthy of being celebrated; but to appreciate it one must understand the Mantuan dialect.” “I could make it out, if you could get me a copy.” “I shall have the honour of presenting you with one to-morrow.” “You will oblige me extremely.” We had to leave his room and spend two hours in the company, talking over all sorts of things. Voltaire displayed all the resources of his brilliant and fertile wit, and charmed everyone in spite of his sarcastic observations which did not even spare those present, but he had an inimitable manner of lancing a sarcasm without wounding a person’s feelings. When the great man accompanied his witticisms with a graceful smile he could always get a laugh. He kept up a notable establishment and an excellent table, a rare circumstance with his poetic brothers, who are rarely favourites of Plutus as he was. He was then sixty years old, and had a hundred and twenty thousand francs a year. It has been said maliciously that this great man enriched himself by cheating his publishers; whereas the fact was that he fared no better than any other author, and instead of duping them was often their dupe. The Cramers must be excepted, whose fortune he made. Voltaire had other ways of making money than by his pen; and as he was greedy of fame, he often gave his works away on the sole condition that they were to be printed and published. During the short time I was with him, I was a witness of such a generous action; he made a present to his bookseller of the “Princess of Babylon,” a charming story which he had written in three days. My epicurean syndic was exact to his appointment, and took me to a house at a little distance where he introduced me to three young ladies, who, without being precisely beautiful, were certainly ravishing. Two of them were sisters. I had an easy and pleasant welcome, and from their intellectual appearance and gay manners I anticipated a delightful evening, and I was not disappointed. The half hour before supper was passed in conversation, decent but without restraint, and during supper, from the hints the syndic gave me, I guessed what would happen after dessert. It was a hot evening, and on the pretext of cooling ourselves, we undressed so as to be almost in a state of nature. What an orgy we had! I am sorry I am obliged to draw a veil over the most exciting details. In the midst of our licentious gaiety, whilst we were heated by love, champagne, and a discourse of an exciting nature, I proposed to recite Grecourt’s ‘Y Gyec’. When I had finished the voluptuous poem, worthy of an abbé’s pen, I saw that the eyes of the three beauties were all aflame, and said,— “Ladies, if you like, I will shew you all three, one after the other, why the sentence, ‘Gaudeant bene nati’, was uttered”; and without waiting for their reply, I succeeded in making them happy. The syndic was radiant, he was pleased at having given me a present entirely to my taste; and I fancied that the entertainment was not displeasing to the three Graces, who were kept low by the Sybarite, as his powers were almost limited to desires. The girls lavished their thanks on me, while I endeavoured to assure them of my gratitude; but they leapt for joy when they heard the syndic asking me to come next day. As he was taking me back to my inn I told him how great a pleasure he had given me, and he said he had brought up the three jewels himself. “You,” he added, “are the only man besides myself they know. You shall see them again, but I beg you will take care not to leave anything behind you, for in this town of prejudices that would be a great misfortune for them and for me.” “You are always moderate in your enjoyment, then?” I said to him.