“I challenge you to prove that you are speaking the truth,” said she, with a smile. I sat down next to her, and she gave me a nice piece of the roast which I ate as if I had been fasting. While I was talking with the lady, and eating the morsels she gave me, I heard a voice saying that I was in the abbé’s place, and another voice replying that the abbé had been gone for half an hour. “Why has he gone?” asked a third, “he said he was going to stay here for another week.” At this there was some whispering, but the departure of an abbé had nothing interesting in it for me, and I continued eating and talking. I told Le Duc, who was standing behind my chair, to get me some champagne. I offered the lady some, she accepted, and everyone began to call for champagne. Seeing my neighbour’s spirits rising, I proceeded to make love to her, and asked her if she were always as ready to defy those who paid their court to her. “So many of them,” she answered, “are not worthy the trouble.” She was pretty and quick-witted, and I took a fancy to her, and wished for some pretext on which I could put off my departure, and chance came to my aid. “The place next to you was conveniently empty,” said a lady to my neighbour who was drinking with me. “Very conveniently, for my neighbour wearied me.” “Had he no appetite?” said I. “Gamesters only have an appetite for money.” “Usually, but your power is extraordinary; for I have never made two dinners on one day before now.” “Only out of pride; as I am sure you will eat no supper.” “Let us make a bet on it.” “We will; we will bet the supper.” “All right.” All the guests began to clap, and my fair neighbour blushed with pleasure. I ordered Le Duc to tell my coachman that I should not be going till the next day. “It is my business,” said the lady, “to order the supper.” “Yes, you are right; for he who pays, orders. My part will be to oppose you to the knife, and if I eat as much as you I shall be the winner.” “Very good.” At the end of dinner, the individual who had addressed me before called for cards, and made a small bank of faro. He put down twenty-five Piedmontese pistoles, and some silver money to amuse the ladies—altogether it amounted nearly to forty louis. I remained a spectator during the first deal, and convinced myself that the banker played very well. Whilst he was getting ready for the second deal, the lady asked me why I did not play. I whispered to her that she had made me lose my appetite for money. She repaid this compliment with a charming smile. After this declaration, feeling myself entitled to play, I put down forty louis, and lost them in two deals. I got up, and on the banker saying very politely that he was sorry for my loss, I replied that it was a mere nothing, but that I always made it a rule never to risk a sum of money larger than the bank. Somebody then asked me if I knew a certain Abbé Gilbert. “I knew a man of that name,” said I, “at Paris; he came from Lyons, and owes me a pair of ears, which I mean to cut off his head when I meet him.” My questioner made no reply to this, and everybody remained silent, as if nothing had been said. From this I concluded that the abbé aforesaid must be the same whose place I had occupied at dinner. He had doubtless seen me on my arrival and had taken himself off. This abbé was a rascal who had visited me at Little Poland, to whom I had entrusted a ring which had cost me five thousand florins in Holland; next day the scoundrel had disappeared. When everybody had left the table, I asked Le Duc if I were well lodged. “No,” said he; “would you like to see your room?” He took me to a large room, a hundred paces from the inn, whose sole furniture consisted of its four walls, all the other rooms being occupied. I complained vainly to the inn-keeper, who said, “It’s all I can offer you, but I will have a good bed, a table, and chairs taken there.” I had to content myself with it, as there was no choice. “You will sleep in my room,” said I to Le Duc, “take care to provide yourself with a bed, and bring my baggage in.” “What do you think of Gilbert, sir?” said my Spaniard; “I only recognized him just as he was going, and I had a lively desire to take him by the back of his neck.” “You would have done well to have satisfied that desire.” “I will, when I see him again.” As I was leaving my big room, I was accosted politely by a man who said he was glad to be my neighbour, and offered to take me to the fountain if I were going there. I accepted his offer. He was a tall fair man, about fifty years old; he must once have been handsome, but his excessive politeness should have made me suspect him; however, I wanted somebody to talk to, and to give me the various pieces of information I required. On the way he informed me of the condition of the people I had seen, and I learnt that none of them had come to Aix for the sake of the waters. “I am the only one,” said he, “who takes them out of necessity. I am consumptive; I get thinner every day, and if the waters don’t do me any good I shall not last much longer.” So all the others have only come here for amusement’s sake?” “And to game, sir, for they are all professional gamesters.” “Are they French?” “They are all from Piedmont or Savoy; I am the only Frenchman here.” “What part of France do you come from?” “From Lorraine; my father, who is eighty years old, is the Marquis Desarmoises.