I feel better already, and I shall be able to wait on you to-morrow. I tell you as much, because I do not wish you to think that my illness is feigned. I am sure that your repentance for having humiliated me is sincere, and I hope in your turn that you will forgive me or pity me, if my way of thinking prevents me from conforming to yours.” “Annette dear, go and ask your sister if she would like us to sup in her room.” She soon came back telling me that Veronique was obliged, but begged me to let her sleep. I supped with Annette, and was glad to see that, though she only drank water, her appetite was better than mine. My passion for her sister prevented me thinking of her, but I felt that Annette would otherwise have taken my fancy. When we were taking dessert, I conceived the idea of making her drunk to get her talk of her sister, so I gave her a glass of Lunel muscat. “I only drink water, sir.” “Don’t you like wine?” “Yes, but as I am not used to it I am afraid of its getting into my head.” “Then you can go to bed; you will sleep all the better.” She drank the first glass, which she enjoyed immensely, then a second, and then a third. Her little brains were in some confusion when she had finished the third glass. I made her talk about her sister, and in perfect faith she told me all the good imaginable. “Then you are very fond of Veronique?” said I. “Oh, yes! I love her with all my heart, but she will not let me caress her.” “No doubt she is afraid of your ceasing to love her. But do you think she ought to make me suffer so?” “No, but if you love her you ought to forgive her.” Annette was still quite reasonable. I made her drink a fourth glass of muscat, but an instant after she told me that she could not see anything, and we rose from the table. Annette began to please me a little too much, but I determined not to make any attempts upon her for fear of finding her too submissive. A little resistance sharpens the appetite, while favours granted with too much ease lose a great deal of their charm. Annette was only fourteen, she had a soft heart, no knowledge of the world or her own rights, and she would not have resisted my embraces for fear of being rude. That sort of thing would only please a rich and voluptuous Turk. I begged her to do my hair, intending to dismiss her directly after, but when she had finished I asked her to give me the ointment. “What do you want it for?” “For the blisters that cursed saddle on which I rode six miles gave me.” “Does the ointment do them good?” “Certainly; it takes away the smart, and by to-morrow I shall be cured, but you must send Costa to me, as I cannot put it on myself.” “Can’t I do it?” “Yes, but I am afraid that would be an abuse of your kindness.” “I guess why; but as I am short-sighted, how shall I see the blisters?” “If you want to do it for me, I will place myself so that it will be easier for you. Stay, put the candle on this table.” “There you are, but don’t let Costa put it on again to-morrow, or he will guess that I or my sister did it to-night.” “You will do me the same service, then, to-morrow?” “I or my sister, for she will get up early.” “Your sister! No, my dear; she would be afraid of giving me too much pleasure by touching me so near.” “And I am only afraid of hurting you. Is that right? Good heavens! what a state your skin is in!” “You have not finished yet.” “I am so short-sighted; turn round.” “With pleasure. Here I am.” The little wanton could not resist laughing at what she saw, doubtless, for the first time. She was obliged to touch it to continue rubbing the ointment in, and I saw that she liked it, as she touched it when she had no need, and not being able to stand it any longer I took hold of her hand and made her stop her work in favour of a pleasanter employment. When she had finished I burst out laughing to hear her ask, in the most serious way, the pot of ointment still in her left hand, “Did I do it right!” “Oh, admirably, dear Annette! You are an angel, and I am sure you know what pleasure you gave me. Can you come and spend an hour with me?” “Wait a bit.” She went out and shut the door, and I waited for her to return; but my patience being exhausted I opened the door slightly, and saw her undressing and getting into bed with her sister. I went back to my room and to bed again, without losing all hope. I was not disappointed, for in five minutes back she came, clad in her chemise and walking on tip-toe. “Come to my arms, my love; it is very cold.” “Here I am. My sister is asleep and suspects nothing; and even if she awoke the bed is so large that she would not notice my absence.” “You are a divine creature, and I love you with all my heart.” “So much the better. I give myself up to you; do what you like with me, on the condition that you think of my sister no more.” “That will not cost me much. I promise that I will not think of her.” I found Annette a perfect neophyte, and though I saw no blood on the altar of love next morning I did not suspect her on that account. I have often seen such cases, and I know by experience that the effusion of blood or its absence proves nothing.