On my way the abbé assured me, as a matter of course, that I had pleased the governor, and I afterwards went to the theatre, and obtained admission to Thérèse’s dressing-room for a tester. I found her in the hands of her pretty chamber-maid, and she advised me to go to Redegonde’s dressing-room, as she played a man’s part, and might, perhaps, allow me to assist in her toilette. I followed her advice, but the mother would not let me come in, as her daughter was just going to dress. I assured her that I would turn my back all the time she was dressing, and on this condition she let me in, and made me sit down at a table on which stood a mirror, which enabled me to see all Redegonde’s most secret parts to advantage; above all, when she lifted her legs to put on her breeches, either most awkwardly or most cleverly, according to her intentions. She did not lose anything by what she shewed, however, for I was so pleased, that to possess her charms I would have signed any conditions she cared to impose upon me. “Redegonde must know,” I said to myself, “that I could see everything in the glass;” and the idea inflamed me. I did not turn round till the mother gave me leave, and I then admired my charmer as a young man of five feet one, whose shape left nothing to be desired. Redegonde went out, and I followed her to the wings. “My dear,” said I, “I am going to talk plainly to you. You have inflamed my passions and I shall die if you do not make me happy.” “You do not say that you will die if you chance to make me unhappy.” “I could not say so, because I cannot conceive such a thing as possible. Do not trifle with me, dear Redegonde, you must be aware that I saw all in the mirror, and I cannot think that you are so cruel as to arouse my passions and then leave me to despair.” “What could you have seen? I don’t know what you are talking about.” “May be, but know that I have seen all your charms. What shall I do to possess you?” “To possess me? I don’t understand you, sir; I’m an honest girl.” “I dare say; but you wouldn’t be any less honest after making me happy. Dear Redegonde, do not let me languish for you, but tell me my fate now this instant.” “I do not know what to tell you, but you can come and see me whenever you like.” “When shall I find you alone?” “Alone! I am never alone.” “Well, well, that’s of no consequence; if only your mother is present, that comes to the same thing. If she is sensible, she will pretend not to see anything, and I will give you a hundred ducats each time.” “You are either a madman, or you do not know what sort of people we are.” With these words she went on, and I proceeded to tell Thérèse what had passed. “Begin,” said she, “by offering the hundred ducats to the mother, and if she refuses, have no more to do with them, and go elsewhere.” I returned to the dressing-room, where I found the mother alone, and without any ceremony spoke as follows:— “Good evening, madam, I am a stranger here; I am only staying a week, and I am in love with your daughter. If you like to be obliging, bring her to sup with me. I will give you a hundred sequins each time, so you see my purse is in your power.” “Whom do you think you are talking to, sir? I am astonished at your impudence. Ask the townsfolk what sort of character I bear, and whether my daughter is an honest girl or not! and you will not make such proposals again.” “Good-bye, madam.” “Good-bye, sir.” As I went out I met Redegonde, and I told her word for word the conversation I had had with her mother. She burst out laughing. “Have I done well or ill?” said I. “Well enough, but if you love me come and see me.” “See you after what your mother said?” “Well, why not, who knows of it?” “Who knows? You don’t know me, Redegonde. I do not care to indulge myself in idle hopes, and I thought I had spoken to you plainly enough.” Feeling angry, and vowing to have no more to do with this strange girl, I supped with Thérèse, and spent three delightful hours with her. I had a great deal of writing to do the next day and kept in doors, and in the evening I had a visit from the young Corticelli, her mother and brother. She begged me to keep my promise regarding the manager of the theatre, who would not let her dance the ‘pas de deux’ stipulated for in the agreement. “Come and breakfast with me to-morrow morning,” said I, “and I will speak to the Israelite in your presence—at least I will do so if he comes.” “I love you very much,” said the young wanton, “can’t I stop a little longer here.” “You may stop as long as you like, but as I have got some letters to finish, I must ask you to excuse my entertaining you.” “Oh! just as you please.” I told Costa to give her some supper. I finished my letters and felt inclined for a little amusement, so I made the girl sit by me and proceeded to toy with her, but in such a way that her mother could make no objection. All at once the brother came up and tried to join in the sport, much to my astonishment. “Get along with you,” said I, “you are not a girl.” At this the young scoundrel proceeded to shew me his sex, but in such an indecent fashion that his sister, who was sitting on my knee, burst out laughing and took refuge with her mother, who was sitting at the other end of the room in gratitude for the good supper I had given her.