I had no real need of being presented to the Pope by anyone, as any Christian is at liberty to go in when he sees the door open. Besides I had known His Holiness when he was Bishop of Padua; but I had preferred to claim the honor of being introduced by a cardinal. After saluting the Head of the Faithful, and kissing the holy cross embroidered on his holy slipper, the Pope put his right hand on my left shoulder, and said he remembered that I always forsook the assembly at Padua, when he intoned the Rosary. “Holy Father, I have much worse sins than that on my conscience, so I come prostrate at your foot to receive your absolution.” He then gave me his benediction, and asked me very graciously what he could do for me. “I beg Your Holiness to plead for me, that I may be able to return to Venice.” “We will speak of it to the ambassador, and then we will speak again to you on the matter.” “Do you often go and see Cardinal Passionei?” “I have been three times. He gave me his funeral oration on Prince Eugene, and in return I sent him the ‘Pandects’.” “Has he accepted them?” “I think so, Holy Father.” “If he has, he will send Winckelmann to pay you for them.” “That would be treating me like a bookseller; I will not receive any payment.” “Then he will return the volume of the ‘Pandects’; we are sure of it, he always does so.” “If his eminence returns me the ‘Pandects’, I will return him his funeral oration.” At this the Pope laughed till his sides shook. “We shall be pleased to hear the end of the story without anyone being informed of our innocent curiosity.” With these words, a long benediction delivered with much unction informed me that my audience was at an end. As I was leaving His Holiness’s palace, I was accosted by an old abbé, who asked me respectfully if I were not the M. Casanova who had escaped from The Leads. “Yes,” said I, “I am the man.” “Heaven be praised, worthy sir, that I see you again in such good estate!” “But whom have I the honour of addressing?” “Don’t you recollect me? I am Momolo, formerly gondolier at Venice.” “Have you entered holy orders, then?” “Not at all, but here everyone wears the cassock. I am the first scopatore (sweeper) of His Holiness the Pope.” “I congratulate you on your appointment, but you mustn’t mind me laughing.” “Laugh as much as you like. My wife and daughters laugh when I put on the cassock and bands, and I laugh myself, but here the dress gains one respect. Come and see us.” “Where do you live?” “Behind the Trinity of Monti; here’s my address.” “I will come to-night.” I went home delighted with this meeting, and determined to enjoy the evening with my Venetian boatman. I got my brother to come with me, and I told him how the Pope had received me. The Abbé Winckelmann came in the afternoon and informed me that I was fortunate enough to be high in favour with his cardinal, and that the book I had sent him was very valuable; it was a rare work, and in much better condition than the Vatican copy. “I am commissioned to pay you for it.” “I have told his eminence that it was a present.” “He never accepts books as presents, and he wants yours for his own library; and as he is librarian of the Vatican Library he is afraid lest people might say unpleasant things.” “That’s very well, but I am not a bookseller; and as this book only cost me the trouble of accepting it, I am determined only to sell it at the same price. Pray ask the cardinal to honour me by accepting it.” “He is sure to send it back to you.” “He can if he likes, but I will send back his funeral oration, as I am not going to be under an obligation to anyone who refuses to take a present from me.” Next morning the eccentric cardinal returned me my Pandects, and I immediately returned his funeral oration, with a letter in which I pronounced it a masterpiece of composition, though I laid barely glanced over it in reality. My brother told me I was wrong, but I did not trouble what he said, not caring to guide myself by his rulings. In the evening my brother and I went to the ‘scopatore santissimo’, who was expecting me, and had announced me to his family as a prodigy of a man. I introduced my brother, and proceeded to a close scrutiny of the family. I saw an elderly woman, four girls, of whom the eldest was twenty-four, two small boys, and above all universal ugliness. It was not inviting for a man of voluptuous tastes, but I was there, and the best thing was to put a good face on it; so I stayed and enjoyed myself. Besides the general ugliness, the household presented the picture of misery, for the ‘scopatore santissimo’ and his numerous family were obliged to live on two hundred Roman crowns a year, and as there are no perquisites attached to the office of apostolic sweeper, he was compelled to furnish all needs out of this slender sum. In spite of that Momolo was a most generous man. As soon as he saw me seated he told me he should have liked to give me a good supper, but there was only pork chops and a polenta. “They are very nice,” said I; “but will you allow me to send for half a dozen flasks of Orvieto from my lodging?” “You are master here.” I wrote a note to Costa, telling him to bring the six flasks directly, with a cooked ham. He came in half an hour, and the four girls cried when they saw him, “What a fine fellow!” I saw Costa was delighted with this reception, and said to Momolo, “If you like him as well as your girls I will let him stay.” Costa was charmed with such honour being shewn him, and after thanking me went into the kitchen to help the mother with the polenta.