There was nothing of the pedant about this philosopher; he loved children and young people, and his cheerful disposition made him delight in all kinds of enjoyment. Next day, as I was going to pay my court to the Pope, I saw Momolo in the first ante-chamber, and I took care to remind him of the polenta for the evening. As soon as the Pope saw me, he said,— “The Venetian ambassador has informed us that if you wish to return to your native land, you must go and present yourself before the secretary of the Tribunal.” “Most Holy Father, I am quite ready to take this step, if Your Holiness will grant me a letter of commendation written with your own hand. Without this powerful protection I should never dream of exposing myself to the risk of being again shut up in a place from which I escaped by a miracle and the help of the Almighty.” “You are gaily dressed; you do not look as if you were going to church.” “True, most Holy Father, but neither am I going to a ball.” “We have heard all about the presents being sent back. Confess that you did so to gratify your pride.” “Yes, but also to lower a pride greater than mine.” The Pope smiled at this reply, and I knelt down and begged him to permit me to present the volume of Pandects to the Vatican Library. By way of reply he gave me his blessing, which signifies, in papal language, “Rise; your request is granted.” “We will send you,” said he, “a mark of our singular affection for you without your having to pay any fees.” A second blessing bid me begone. I have often felt what a good thing it would be if this kind of dismissal could be employed in general society to send away importunate petitioners, to whom one does not dare say, “Begone.” I was extremely curious to know what the Pope had meant by “a mark of our singular affection.” I was afraid that it would be a blessed rosary, with which I should not have known what to do. When I got home I sent the book by Costa to the Vatican, and then I went to dine with Mengs. While we were eating the soup the winning numbers from the lottery were brought in. My brother glanced at them and looked at me with astonishment. I was not thinking of the subject at that moment, and his gaze surprised me. “Twenty-seven,” he cried, “came out fifth.” “All the better,” said I, “we shall have some amusement out of it.” I told the story to Mengs, who said,— “It’s a lucky folly for you this time; but it always is a folly.” He was quite right, and I told him that I agreed with him; but I added that to make a worthy use of the fifteen hundred roman crowns which fortune had given me, I should go and spend fifteen days at Naples. “I will come too,” said the Abbé Alfani. “I will pass for your secretary.” “With all my heart,” I answered, “I shall keep you to your word.” I asked Winckelmann to come and eat polenta with the scopatore santissimo, and told my brother to shew him the way; and I then called on the Marquis Belloni, my banker, to look into my accounts, and to get a letter of credit on the firm at Naples, who were his agents. I still had two hundred thousand francs: I had jewellery worth thirty thousand francs, and fifty thousand florins at Amsterdam. I got to Momolo’s in the dusk of the evening, and I found Winckelmann and my brother already there; but instead of mirth reigning round the board I saw sad faces on all sides. “What’s the matter with the girls?” I asked Momolo. “They are vexed that you did not stake for them in the same way as you did for yourself.” “People are never satisfied. If I had staked for them as I did for myself, and the number had come out first instead of fifth, they would have got nothing, and they would have been vexed then. Two days ago they had nothing, and now that they have twenty-seven pounds apiece they ought to be contented.” “That’s just what I tell them, but all women are the same.” “And men too, dear countryman, unless they are philosophers. Gold does not spell happiness, and mirth can only be found in hearts devoid of care. Let us say no more about it, but be happy.” Costa placed a basket containing ten packets of sweets, upon the table. “I will distribute them,” said I, “when everybody is here.” On this, Momolo’s second daughter told me that Mariuccia and her mother were not coming, but that they would send them the sweets. “Why are they not coming?” “They had a quarrel yesterday,” said the father, “and Mariuccia, who was in the right, went away saying that she would never come here again.” “You ungrateful girls!” said I, to my host’s daughters, “don’t you know that it is to her that you owe your winnings, for she gave me the number twenty-seven, which I should never have thought of. Quick! think of some way to make her come, or I will go away and take all the sweets with me.” “You are quite right,” said Momolo. The mortified girls looked at one another and begged their father to fetch her. “Ira,” said he, “that won’t do; you made her say that she would never come here again, and you must make up the quarrel.” They held a short consultation, and then, asking Costa to go with them, they went to fetch her. In half an hour they returned in triumph, and Costa was quite proud of the part he had taken in the reconciliation. I then distributed the sweets, taking care to give the two best packets to the fair Mary.