We go there sometimes, and I assure you that I do not experience the slightest sensation.” “That may be through a defect of temperament, for whenever I see well-painted voluptuous pictures I feel myself on fire. I wonder that while you and the duke look at them, you do not try to put some of them into practice.” “We have only friendship for one another.” “Let him believe it who will.” “I am sure he is a man, but I am unable to say whether he is able to give a woman any real proofs of his love.” “Yet he has a son.” “Yes, he has a child who calls him father; but he himself confesses that he is only able to shew his manly powers with his wife.” “That’s all nonsense, for you are made to give birth to amorous desires, and a man who could live with you without being able to possess you ought to cease to live.” “Do you really think so?” “Dear Leonilda, if I were in the duke’s place I would shew you what a man who really loves can do.” “Caro Don Giacomo, I am delighted to hear you love me, but you will soon forget me, as you are leaving Naples.” “Cursed be the gaming-table, for without it we might spend some delightful hour together.” “The duke told me that you lost a thousand ducats yesterday evening like a perfect gentleman. You must be very unlucky.” “Not always, but when I play on a day in which I have fallen in love I am sure to lose.” “You will win back your money this evening.” “This is the declaration day; I shall lose again.” “Then don’t play.” “People would say I was afraid, or that all my money was gone.” “I hope at all events that you will win sometimes, and that you will tell me of your good luck. Come and see me to-morrow with the duke.” The duke came in at that moment, and asked me if I had liked the opera. Leonilda answered for me, “We have been talking about love all the time, so we don’t know what has been going on the stage.” “You have done well.” “I trust you will bring M. Casanova to see me tomorrow morning, as I hope he will bring me news that he has won.” “It’s my turn to deal this evening, dearest, but whether he wins or loses you shall see him to-morrow. You must give us some breakfast.” “I shall be delighted.” We kissed her hand, and went to the same place as the night before. The company was waiting for the duke. There were twelve members of the club, and they all held the bank in turn. They said that this made the chances more equal; but I laughed at this opinion, as there is nothing more difficult to establish than equality between players. The Duke de Matalone sat down, drew out his purse and his pocket-book, and put two thousand ducats in the bank, begging pardon of the others for doubling the usual sum in favour of the stranger. The bank never exceeded a thousand ducats. “Then,” said I, “I will hazard two thousand ducats also and not more, for they say at Venice that a prudent player never risks more than he can win. Each of my counters will be equivalent to two ducats.” So saying, I took ten notes of a hundred ducats each from my pocket, and gave them to the last evening’s banker who had won them from me. Play began; and though I was prudent, and only risked my money on a single card, in less than three hours my counters were all gone. I stopped playing, though I had still twenty-five thousand ducats; but I had said that I would not risk more than two thousand, and I was ashamed to go back from my word. Though I have always felt losing my money, no one has ever seen me put out, my natural gaiety was heightened by art on such occasions, and seemed to be more brilliant than ever. I have always found it a great advantage to be able to lose pleasantly. I made an excellent supper, and my high spirits furnished me with such a fund of amusing conversation that all the table was in a roar. I even succeeded in dissipating the melancholy of the Duke de Matalone, who was in despair at having won such a sum from his friend and guest. He was afraid he had half ruined me, and also that people might say he had only welcomed me for the sake of my money. As we returned to the palace the conversation was affectionate on his side and jovial on mine, but I could see he was in some trouble, and guessed what was the matter. He wanted to say that I could pay the money I owed him whenever I liked, but was afraid of wounding my feelings; but as soon as he got in he wrote me a friendly note to the effect that if I wanted money his banker would let me have as much as I required. I replied directly that I felt the generosity of his offer, and if I was in need of funds I would avail myself of it. Early next morning I went to his room, and after an affectionate embrace I told him not to forget that we were going to breakfast with his fair mistress. We both put on great coats and went to Leonilda’s pretty house. We found her sitting up in bed, negligently but decently dressed, with a dimity corset tied with red ribbons. She looked beautiful, and her graceful posture added to her charms. She was reading Crebillon’s Sopha. The duke sat down at the bottom of the bed, and I stood staring at her in speechless admiration, endeavouring to recall to my memory where I had seen such another face as hers.