However, tell me if one must stop at the first principle of a thing one wants to understand.” “Certainly, and the reason is that in God there is no first principle, and He is therefore incomprehensible.” “God be praised! that is how I would have you answer. Can God have any self-consciousness?” “There my learning is baffled. I know not what to reply. You should not ask me so hard a thing as that.” “But you wished for something new. I thought the newest thing would be to see you at a loss.” “That’s prettily said. Be kind enough to reply for me, gentlemen, and teach me what to say.” Everybody tried to answer, but nothing was said worthy of record. Hedvig at last said,— “My opinion is that since God knows all, He knows of His own existence, but you must not ask me how He knows it.” “That’s well said,” I answered; and nobody could throw any further light on the matter. All the company looked on me as a polite Atheist, so superficial is the judgment of society, but it did not matter to me whether they thought me an Atheist or not. M. de Ximenes asked Hedvig if matter had been created. “I cannot recognize the word ‘created,’” she replied. “Ask me whether matter was formed, and I shall reply in the affirmative. The word ‘created’ cannot have existence, for the existence of anything must be prior to the word which explains it.” “Then what meaning do you assign to the word ‘created’?” “Made out of nothing. You see the absurdity, for nothing must have first existed. I am glad to see you laugh. Do you think that nothingness could be created?” “You are right.” “Not at all, not at all,” said one of the guests, superciliously. “Kindly tell me who was your teacher?” said M. de Ximenes. “My uncle there.” “Not at all, my dear niece. I certainly never taught you what you have been telling us to-day. But my niece, gentlemen, reads and reflects over what she has read, perhaps with rather too much freedom, but I love her all the same, because she always ends by acknowledging that she knows nothing.” A lady who had not opened her lips hitherto asked Hedvig for a definition of spirit. “Your question is a purely philosophical one, and I must answer that I do not know enough of spirit or matter to be able to give a satisfactory definition.” “But since you acknowledge the existence of Deity and must therefore have an abstract idea of spirit, you must have some notions on the subject, and should be able to tell me how it acts on matter.” “No solid foundation can be built on abstract ideas. Hobbes calls such ideas mere fantasms. One may have them, but if one begins to reason on them, one is landed in contradiction. I know that God sees me, but I should labour in vain if I endeavoured to prove it by reasoning, for reason tells us no one can see anything without organs of sight; and God being a pure spirit, and therefore without organs, it is scientifically impossible that He can see us any more than we can see Him. But Moses and several others have seen Him, and I believe it so, without attempting to reason on it.” “You are quite right,” said I, “for you would be confronted by blank impossibility. But if you take to reading Hobbes you are in danger of becoming an Atheist.” “I am not afraid of that. I cannot conceive the possibility of Atheism.” After dinner everybody crowded round this truly astonishing girl, so that I had no opportunity of whispering my love. However, I went apart with Helen, who told me that the pastor and his niece were going to sup with her mother the following day. “Hedvig,” she added, “will stay the night and sleep with me as she always does when she comes to supper with her uncle. It remains to be seen if you are willing to hide in a place I will shew you at eleven o’clock tomorrow, in order to sleep with us. Call on my mother at that hour to-morrow, and I will find an opportunity of shewing you where it is. You will be safe though not comfortable, and if you grow weary you can console yourself by thinking that you are in our minds.” “Shall I have to stay there long?” “Four hours at the most. At seven o’clock the street door is shut, and only opened to anyone who rings.” “If I happen to cough while I am in hiding might I be heard?” “Yes, that might happen.” “There’s a great hazard. All the rest is of no consequence; but no matter, I will risk all for the sake of so great happiness.” In the morning I paid the mother a visit, and as Helen was escorting me out she shewed me a door between the two stairs. “At seven o’clock,” said she, “the door will be open, and when you are in put on the bolt. Take care that no one sees you as you are entering the house.” At a quarter to seven I was already a prisoner. I found a seat in my cell, otherwise I should neither have been able to lie down or to stand up. It was a regular hole, and I knew by my sense of smell that hams and cheeses were usually kept there; but it contained none at present, for I fell all round to see how the land lay. As I was cautiously stepping round I felt my foot encounter some resistance, and putting down my hand I recognized the feel of linen. It was a napkin containing two plates, a nice roast fowl, bread, and a second napkin. Searching again I came across a bottle and a glass. I was grateful to my charmers for having thought of my stomach, but as I had purposely made a late and heavy meal I determined to defer the consumption of my cold collation till a later hour.