She was tall and beautiful, but had not as high pretensions as the Jewess; as she only wanted to know whether she could do my washing for me. I was quite taken with her. Clairmont had just brought me my chocolate, and I asked her to sit down on the bed; but she answered modestly that she did not want to trouble me, and would come again when I was up. “Do you live at any distance?” “I live on the ground floor of this house.” “All by yourself?” “No sir, I have my father and mother.” “And what is your name?” “Zenobia.” “Your name is as pretty as you are. Will you give me your hand to kiss?” “I can’t,” she replied, with a smile, “my hand is another’s.” “You are engaged, are you?” “Yes, to a tailor, and we are going to be married before the end of the carnival.” “Is he rich or handsome?” “Neither the one nor the other.” “Then why are you going to marry him?” “Because I want to have a house of my own.” “I like you, and will stand your friend. Go and fetch your tailor. I will give him some work to do.” As soon as she went out I got up and told Clairmont to put my linen on a table. I had scarcely finished dressing when she came back with her tailor. It was a striking contrast, for he was a little shrivelled-up man, whose appearance made one laugh. “Well, master tailor,” said I, “so you are going to marry this charming girl?” “Yes, sir, the banns have been published already.” “You are a lucky fellow indeed to have so much happiness in store. When are you going to marry her?” “In ten or twelve days.” “Why not to-morrow?” “Your worship is in a great hurry.” “I think I should be, indeed,” said I, laughing, “if I were in your place. I want you to make me a domino for the ball to-morrow.” “Certainly, sir; but your excellency must find me the stuff, for nobody in Milan would give me credit for it, and I couldn’t afford to lay out so much money in advance.” “When you are married you will have money and credit too. In the meanwhile here are ten sequins for you.” He went away in high glee at such a windfall. I gave Zenobia some lace to do up, and asked her if she was afraid of having a jealous husband. “He is neither jealous nor amorous,” she replied. “He is only marrying me because I earn more than he does.” “With your charms I should have thought you might have made a better match.” “I have waited long enough; I have got tired of maidenhood. Besides, he is sharp if he is not handsome, and perhaps a keen head is better than a handsome face.” “You are sharp enough yourself, anyhow. But why does he put off the wedding?” “Because he hasn’t got any money, and wants to have a fine wedding for his relations to come to. I should like it myself.” “I think you are right; but I can’t see why you should not let an honest man kiss your hand.” “That was only a piece of slyness to let you know I was to be married. I have no silly prejudices myself.” “Ah, that’s better! Tell your future husband that if he likes me to be the patron of the wedding I will pay for everything.” “Really?” “Yes, really. I will give him twenty-five sequins on the condition that he spends it all on the wedding.” “Twenty-five sequins! That will make people talk; but what care we? I will give you an answer to-morrow.” “And a kiss now?” “With all my heart.” Zenobia went away in great delight, and I went out to call on my banker and dear Thérèse. When the door was opened the pretty maid recognized me, and taking me by the hand led me to her mistress, who was just going to get up. Her emotion at seeing me was so great that she could not utter a word, but only clasped me to her breast. Our natural transports over, Thérèse told me that she had got tired of her husband, and that for the last six months they had not been living together. She had made him an allowance to get rid of him, and he lived on it at Rome. “And where is Cesarino?” “In this town. You can see him whenever you like.” “Are you happy?” “Quite. People say that I have a lover, but it is not true; and you can see me at any time with perfect liberty.” We spent two pleasant hours in telling each other of our experiences since our last meeting, and then, finding her as fresh and fair as in the season of our early loves, I asked her if she had vowed to be faithful to her husband. “At Florence,” she replied, “I was still in love with him; but now, if I am still pleasing in your eyes, we can renew our connection, and live together till we die.” “I will soon shew you, darling, that I love you as well as ever.” She answered only by giving herself up to my embrace. After action and contemplation I left her as amorous as she had been eighteen years before, but my passion found too many new objects to remain constant long. Countess A—— B—— began to be more polite. “I know where you have been,” said she, with a pleased air; “but if you love that person, you will not go and see her again, or else her lover will leave her.” “Then I would take his place, madam.” “You are right in amusing yourself with women who know how to earn your presents. I am aware that you never give anything till you have received evident proofs of their affection.” “That has always been my principle.” “It’s an excellent way to avoid being duped.