I recognized him as Barbaro, the son of a Venetian noble, and brother of the fair and famous Madame Gritti Scombro, of whom I spoke ten years ago, whose husband had died in the citadel of Cattaro, where the State Inquisitors had imprisoned him. My young friend had also fallen into disgrace with the despotic Inquisitors. We had been good friends during the year before my imprisonment, but I had heard nothing of him since. Barbaro told me the chief incidents in a life that had been adventurous enough, and informed me that he was now in the service of the Duke of Modena, the Governor of Milan. “I saw you losing money at Canano’s bank,” said he, “and remembering our old friendship I want to communicate to you a sure way of winning money. All that is necessary is for me to introduce you to a club of young men who are very fond of play, and cannot possibly win.” “Where does this club meet?” “In an extremely respectable house. If you agree I will keep the bank myself, and I am sure of winning. I want you to lend me capital, and I only ask a fourth of the profits.” “I suppose you can hold the cards well.” “You are right.” This was as much as to tell me that he was an adroit sharper, or, in other words, a skilful corrector of fortune’s mistakes. He concluded by saying that I should find something worth looking at in the house he had mentioned. “My dear sir,” I replied, “I will give you my decision after seeing the club to which you want to introduce me.” “Will you be at the theatre coffee-house at three o’clock to-morrow?” “Yes, but I hope to see you at the ball in the evening.” Zenobia’s betrothed brought me my domino, and the countess had hers already. As the ball did not begin till the opera was over, I went to hear Thérèse’s singing. In the interval between the acts I lost another two hundred sequins, and then went home to dress for the ball. The countess said that if I would be kind enough to take her to the ball in my carriage and fetch her home in it, she would not send for the Marquis Triulzi’s. I replied that I was at her service. Under the impression that the fair Spaniard had only given me the preference to enable me to take liberties with her, I told her I should be very glad to give her the dress, and that the only condition was that I should spent a night with her. “You insult me cruelly,” said she, “you must know my character better than that.” “I know everything, my dear countess; but, after all, the insult’s nothing; you can easily forgive me if you pluck up a little spirit; trample on a foolish prejudice; get the dress, and make me happy for a whole night long.” “That it all very well when one is in love, but you must confess that your coarse way of speaking is more likely to make me hate you than love you.” “I use that style, because I want to come to the point; I have no time to waste. And you, countess, must confess in your turn, that you would be delighted to have me sighing at your feet.” “It would be all the same to me, I don’t think I could love you.” “Then we are agreed on one point at all events, for I love you no more than you love me.” “And yet you would spend a thousand sequins for the pleasure of passing a night with me.” “Not at all, I don’t want to sleep with you for the sake of the pleasure, but to mortify your infernal pride, which becomes you so ill.” God knows what the fierce Spaniard would have answered, but at that moment the carriage stopped at the door of the theatre. We parted, and after I had got tired of threading my way amidst the crowd I paid a visit to the gaming-room, hoping to regain the money I had lost. I had more than five hundred sequins about me and a good credit at the bank, but I certainly did my best to lose everything I had. I sat down at Canano’s bank, and noticing that the poor count, who followed me wherever I went, was the only person who knew me, I thought I should have a lucky evening. I only punted on one card, and spent four hours without losing or gaining. Towards the end, wishing to force fortune’s favour, I lost rapidly, and left all my money in the hands of the banker. I went back to the ball-room, where the countess rejoined me, and we returned home. When we were in the carriage, she said,— “You lost an immense sum, and I am very glad of it. The marquis will give you a thousand sequins, and the money will bring you luck.” “And you, too, for I suppose you will have the dress?” “Maybe.” “No, madam, you shall never have it in this way, and you know the other. I despise a thousand sequins.” “And I despise you and your presents.” “You may despise me as much as you please, and you may be sure I despise you.” With these polite expressions we reached the house. When I got to my room I found the count there with a long face, as if he wanted to pity me but dared not do it. However, my good temper gave him the courage to say:— “Triulzi will give you a thousand sequins; that will fit you up again.” “For the dress you mean?” “Yes.” “I wanted to give it to your wife, but she said she would despise it, coming from my hands.” “You astonish me; she is mad after it. You must have wounded her haughty temper in some way or another. But sell it, and get the thousand sequins.” “I will let you know to-morrow.” I slept four or five hours, and then rose and went out in my great coat to call on Greppi, for I had no more money.