I also bought two pretty china plates, and I carried them all to Zenobia’s in a sedan-chair. I found that charming woman engaged in her toilet. Her beautiful tresses hung about her neck, and her full breast was concealed by no kerchief. Such charms called for my homage, and to begin with I devoured her with kisses. I spent half an hour with her, and my readers will guess that it was well employed. I then helped her to finish her toilette, and we went off in the sedan-chair. We found the tailor engaged in picking out the scraps and cutting them to fit the holes I had made. Zenobia looked on in a kind of stupor, and when she saw me begin to slash the dresses she turned pale and made an involuntary motion to stay my hand, for not knowing my intentions she thought I must be beside myself. Her husband had got hardened, and reassured her, and when she heard my explanation she became calm, though the idea struck her as a very odd one. When it is a question of an affair of the heart, of the passions, or of pleasure, a woman’s fancy moves much faster than a man’s. When Zenobia knew that these dresses were meant for three beautiful women, whom I wished to make a centre of attraction to the whole assembly, she improved on my cuts and slashes, and arranged the rents in such a manner that they would inspire passion without wounding modesty. The dresses were slashed especially at the breast, the shoulders, and the sleeves; so that the lace shift could be seen, and in its turn the shift was cut open here and there, and the sleeves were so arranged that half the arms could be seen. I saw sure that she understood what I wanted, and that she would keep her husband right; and I left them, encouraging them to work their best and quickest. But I looked in three or four times in the day, and was more satisfied every time with my idea and their execution. The work was not finished till the Saturday afternoon. I gave the tailor six sequins and dismissed him, but I kept Zenobia to attend on the ladies. I took care to place powder, pomade, combs, pins, and everything that a lady needs, on the table, not forgetting ribbons and pack-thread. The next day I found play going on in a very spirited manner, but the two cousins were not at the tables, so I went after them. They told me they had given up playing as Barbaro always won. “You have been losing, then?” “Yes, but my brother has won something,” said the amiable Q——. “I hope luck will declare itself on your side also.” “No, we are not lucky.” When their aunt left the room, they asked me if the lieutenant had told me that a lady friend of theirs was coming to the ball with them. “I know all,” I answered, “and I hope you will enjoy yourselves, but you will not do so more than I. I want to speak to the gallant lieutenant to-morrow morning.” “Tell us about our disguises.” “You will be disguised in such a manner that nobody will recognize you.” “But how shall we be dressed?” “Very handsomely.” “But what costume have you given us?” “That is my secret, ladies. However much I should like to please you, I shall say nothing till the time for you to dress comes round. Don’t ask me anything more, as I have promised myself the enjoyment of your surprise. I am very fond of dramatic situations. You shall know all after supper.” “Are we to have supper, then?” “Certainly, if you would like it. I am a great eater myself and I hope you will not let me eat alone.” “Then we will have some supper to please you. We will take care not to eat much dinner, so as to be able to vie with you in the evening. The only thing I am sorry about,” added Mdlle. Q——, “is that you should be put to such expense.” “It is a pleasure; and when I leave Milan I shall console myself with the thought that I have supped with the two handsomest ladies in the town.” “How is fortune treating you?” “Canano wins two hundred sequins from me every day.” “But you won two thousand from him in one night.” “You will break his bank on Sunday. We will bring you luck.” “Would you like to look on?” “We should be delighted, but my brother says you don’t want to go with us.” “Quite so, the reason is that I should be recognized. But I believe the gentleman who will accompany you is of the same figure as myself.” “Exactly the same,” said the cousin; “except that he is fair.” “All the better,” said I, “the fair always conquer the dark with ease.” “Not always,” said the other. “But tell us, at any rate, whether we are to wear men’s dresses.” “Fie! fie! I should be angry with myself if I had entertained such a thought.” “That’s curious; why so?” “I’ll tell you. If the disguise is complete I am disgusted, for the shape of a woman is much more marked than that of a man, and consequently a woman in man’s dress, who looks like a man, cannot have a good figure.” “But when a woman skews her shape well?” “Then I am angry with her for shewing too much, for I like to see the face and the general outlines of the form and to guess the rest.” “But the imagination is often deceptive!” “Yes, but it is with the face that I always fall in love, and that never deceives me as far as it is concerned. Then if I have the good fortune to see anything more I am always in a lenient mood and disposed to pass over small faults. You are laughing?” “I am smiling at your impassioned arguments.” “Would you like to be dressed like a man?” “I was expecting something of the kind, but after you have said we can make no more objections.” “I can imagine what you would say; I should certainly not take you for men, but I will say no more.” They looked at each other, and blushed and smiled as they saw my gaze fixed on two pre-eminences which one would never expect to see in any man.