“I should be unhappy with an inconstant lover, and you would be unhappy too, for you would feel bitter remorse for having destroyed my peace of mind.” After this she discreetly fled. I remained still as if she had petrified me, but the count who never wearied himself with too much thinking, exclaimed, “Clementine is rather too romantic; she will get over it, however; she is young yet.” We went to bid good day to the countess, whom we found suckling her baby. “Do you know, my dear sister,” said the count, “that the chevalier here is in love with Clementine, and she seems inclined to pay him back in his own coin?” The countess smiled and said,— “I hope a suitable match like that may make us relations.” There is something magical about the word “marriage.” What the countess said pleased me extremely, and I replied with a bow of the most gracious character. We went to pay a call on the lady who had come to the castle the day before. There was a canon regular there, who after a great many polite speeches in praise of my country, which he knew only from books, asked me of what order was the cross I carried on my breast. I replied, with a kind of boastful modesty, that it was a peculiar mark of the favour of the Holy Father, the Pope, who had freely made me a knight of the Order of St. John Lateran, and a prothonotary-apostolic. This monk had stayed at home far from the world, or else he would not have asked me such a question. However, far from thinking he was offending me, he thought he was honouring me by giving me an opportunity of talking of my own merit. At London, the greatest possible rudeness is to ask anyone what his religion is, and it is something the same in Germany; an Anabaptist is by no means ready to confess his creed. And in fact the best plan is never to ask any questions whatever, not even if a man has change for a louis. Clementine was delightful at dinner. She replied wittily and gracefully to all the questions which were addressed to her. True, what she said was lost on the majority of her auditors—for wit cannot stand before stupidity—but I enjoyed her talk immensely. As she kept filling up my glass I reproached her, and this gave rise to the following little dialogue which completed my conquest. “You have no right to complain,” said she, “Hebe’s duty is to keep the cup of the chief of the gods always full.” “Very good; but you know Jupiter sent her away.” “Yes, but I know why. I will take care not to stumble in the same way; and no Ganymede shall take my place for a like cause.” “You are very wise. Jupiter was wrong, and henceforth I will be Hercules. Will that please you, fair Hebe?” “No; because he did not marry her till after her death.” “True, again. I will be Iolas then, for . . .” “Be quiet. Iolas was old.” “True; but so was I yesterday. You have made me young again.” “I am very glad, dear Iolas; but remember what I did when he left me.” “And what did you do? I do not remember.” “I did not believe a word he said.” “You can believe.” “I took away the gift I had made.” At these words this charming girl’s face was suffered with blushes. If I had touched her with my hand, sure it would have been on fire; but the rays that darted from her eyes froze my heart. Philosophers, be not angry if I talk of freezing rays. It is no miracle, but a very natural phenomenon, which is happening every day. A great love, which elevates a man’s whole nature, is a strong flame born out of a great cold, such as I then felt for a moment; it would have killed me if it had lasted longer. The superior manner in which Clementine had applied the story of Hebe convinced me not only that she had a profound knowledge of mythology, but also that she had a keen and far-reaching intellect. She had given me more than a glimpse of her learning; she had let me guess that I interested her, and that she thought of me. These ideas, entering a heart which is already warm, speedily set all the senses in flames. In a moment all doubt was laid to rest; Clementine loved me, and I was sure that we should be happy. Clementine slipped away from the table to calm herself, and thus I had time to escape from my astonishment. “Pray where was that young lady educated?” I said to the countess. “In the country. She was always present when my brother had his lessons, but the tutor, Sardini, never took any notice of her, and it was only she who gained anything; my brother only yawned. Clementine used to make my mother laugh, and puzzle the old tutor sadly sometimes.” “Sardini wrote and published some poems which are not bad; but nobody reads them, because they are so full of mythology.” “Quite so. Clementine possesses a manuscript with which he presented her, containing a number of mythological tales verified. Try and make her shew you her books and the verses she used to write; she won’t shew them to any of us.” I was in a great state of admiration. When she returned I complimented her upon her acquirements, and said that as I was a great lover of literature myself I should be delighted if she would shew me her verses. “I should be ashamed. I had to give over my studies two years ago, when my sister married and we came to live here, where we only see honest folks who talk about the stable, the harvest, and the weather. You are the first person I have seen who has talked to me about literature.