She then fell asleep again in the same position. I should have stayed still long enough, for her warm breath played on my face, and gave me a foretaste of ambrosia; but Eleanore could restrain herself no longer, and, bursting into a peal of laughter, forced Clementine to open her eyes. Nevertheless, she did not discover that she held me in her arms till she saw her sister standing laughing beside the bed. “This is a fine trick,” said she, “you are two charmers indeed!” This quiet reception gave me back my self-composure, and I was able to play my part properly. “You see,” said I, “I have had a kiss from my sweet Hebe.” “I thought I was giving it to my sister. ‘Tis the kiss that Amaryllis gave to Mistillo.” “It comes to the same thing. The kiss has produced its effects, and Iolas is young again.” “Dear Eleanore, you have gone too far, for we love each other, and I was dreaming of him.” “No, no,” said her sister, “Iolas is dressed. Look!” So saying, the little wanton with a swift movement uncovered me, but at the same time she uncovered her sister, and Clementine with a little scream veiled the charms which my eyes had devoured for a moment. I had seen all, but as one sees lightning. I had seen the cornice and the frieze of the altar of love. Eleanore then went out, and I remained gazing at the treasure I desired but did not dare to seize. At last I broke the silence. “Dearest Hebe,” said I, “you are certainly fairer than the cupbearer of the gods. I have just seen what must have been seen when Hebe was falling, and if I had been Jupiter I should have changed my mind.” “Sardini told me that Jupiter drove Hebe away, and now I ought to drive Jupiter away out of revenge.” “Yes; but, my angel, I am Iolas, and not Jupiter. I adore you, and I seek to quench the desires which torture me.” “This is a trick between you and Eleanore.” “My dearest, it was all pure chance. I thought I should find you dressed, and I went in to wish you good day. You were asleep and your sister was dressing. I gazed at you, and Eleanore suggested that I should lie down beside you to enjoy your astonishment when you awoke. I ought to be grateful to her for a pleasure which has turned out so pleasantly. But the beauties she discovered to me surpass all the ideas I had formed on the subject. My charming Hebe will not refuse to pardon me.” “No, since all is the effect of chance. But it is curious that when one loves passionately one always feels inquisitive concerning the person of the beloved object.” “It is a very natural feeling, dearest. Love itself is a kind of curiosity, if it be lawful to put curiosity in the rank of the passions; but you have not that feeling about me?” “No, for fear you might disappoint me, for I love you, and I want everything to speak in your favour.” “I know you might be disappointed, and consequently I must do everything in my power to preserve your good opinion.” “Then you are satisfied with me?” “Surely. I am a good architect, and I think you are grandly built.” “Stay, Iolas, do not touch me; it is enough that you have seen me.” “Alas! it is by touching that one rectifies the mistakes of the eyes; one judges thus of smoothness and solidity. Let me kiss these two fair sources of life. I prefer them to the hundred breasts of Cybele, and I am not jealous of Athys.” “You are wrong there; Sardini told me that it was Diana of Ephesus who had the hundred breasts.” How could I help laughing to hear mythology issuing from Clementine’s mouth at such a moment! Could any lover foresee such an incident? I pressed with my hand her alabaster breast, and yet the desire of knowledge subdued love in the heart of Clementine. But far from mistaking her condition I thought it a good omen. I told her that she was perfectly right, and that I was wrong, and a feeling of literary vanity prevented her opposing my pressing with my lips a rosy bud, which stood out in relief against the alabaster sphere. “You apply your lips in vain, my dear Iolas, the land is barren. But what are you swallowing?” “The quintessence of a kiss.” “I think you must have swallowed something of me, since you have given me a pleasurable sensation I have never before experienced.” “Dear Hebe, you make me happy.” “I am glad to hear it, but I think the kiss on the lips is much better.” “Certainly, because the pleasure is reciprocal, and consequently greater.” “You teach by precept and example too. Cruel teacher! Enough, this pleasure is too sweet. Love must be looking at us and laughing.” “Why should we not let him enjoy a victory which would make us both happier?” “Because such happiness is not built on a sure foundation. No, no! put your arms down. If we can kill each other with kisses, let us kiss on; but let us use no other arms.” After our lips had clung to each other cruelly but sweetly, she paused, and gazing at me with eyes full of passion she begged me to leave her alone. The situation in which I found myself is impossible to describe. I deplored the prejudice which had constrained me, and I wept with rage. I cooled myself by making a toilette which was extremely necessary, and returned to her room. She was writing. “I am delighted to see you back,” said she, “I am full of the poetic frenzy and propose to tell the story of the victory we have gained in verse.” “A sad victory, abhorred by love, hateful to nature.” “That will do nicely.