I told Clairmont to send for the landlady, and she said that she could not help it, as everything had been done by my own cook. “My cook?” I repeated. “Yes, sir, the one your secretary, M. Possano, engaged for you. I could have got a much better one and a much cheaper one myself.” “Get one to-morrow.” “Certainly; but you must rid yourself and me of the present cook, for he has taken up his position here with his wife and children. Tell Possano to send for him.” “I will do so, and in the meanwhile do you get me a fresh cook. I will try him the day after to-morrow.” I escorted my niece into her room, and begged her to go to bed without troubling about me, and so saying I took up the paper and began to read it. When I had finished, I went up to bed, and said, “You might spare me the pain of having to sleep by myself.” She lowered her eyes but said nothing, so I gave her a kiss and left her. In the morning my fair niece came into my room just as Clairmont was washing my feet, and begged me to let her have some coffee as chocolate made her hot. I told my man to go and fetch some coffee, and as soon as he was gone she went down on her knees and would have wiped my feet. “I cannot allow that, my dear young lady.” “Why not? it is a mark of friendship.” “That may be, but such marks cannot be given to anyone but your lover without your degrading yourself.” She got up and sat down on a chair quietly, but saying nothing. Clairmont came back again, and I proceeded with my toilette. The landlady came in with our breakfast, and asked my niece if she would like to buy a fine silk shawl made in the Genoese fashion. I did not let her be confused by having to answer, but told the landlady to let us see it. Soon after the milliner came in, but by that time I had given my young friend twenty Genoese sequins, telling her that she might use them for her private wants. She took the money, thanking me with much grace, and letting me imprint a delicious kiss on her lovely lips. I had sent away the milliner after having bought the shawl, when Possano took it upon himself to remonstrate with me in the matter of the cook. “I engaged the man by your orders,” said he, “for the whole time you stayed at Genoa, at four francs a day, with board and lodging.” “Where is my letter?” “Here it is: ‘Get me a good cook; I will keep him while I stay in Genoa.’” “Perhaps you did not remark the expression, a good cook? Well, this fellow is a very bad cook; and, at all events, I am the best judge whether he is good or bad.” “You are wrong, for the man will prove his skill. He will cite you in the law courts, and win his case.” “Then you have made a formal agreement with him?” “Certainly; and your letter authorized me to do so.” “Tell him to come up; I want to speak to him.” While Possano was downstairs I told Clairmont to go and fetch me an advocate. The cook came upstairs, I read the agreement, and I saw that it was worded in such a manner that I should be in the wrong legally; but I did not change my mind for all that. “Sir,” said the cook, “I am skilled in my business, and I can get four thousand Genoese to swear as much.” “That doesn’t say much for their good taste; but whatever they may say, the execrable supper you gave me last night proves that you are only fit to keep a low eating-house.” As there is nothing more irritable than the feelings of a culinary artist, I was expecting a sharp answer; but just then the advocate came in. He had heard the end of our dialogue, and told me that not only would the man find plenty of witnesses to his skill, but that I should find a very great difficulty in getting anybody at all to swear to his want of skill. “That may be,” I replied, “but as I stick to my own opinion, and think his cooking horrible, he must go, for I want to get another, and I will pay that fellow as if he had served me the whole time.” “That won’t do,” said the cook; “I will summon you before the judge and demand damages for defamation of character.” At this my bile overpowered me, and I was going to seize him and throw him out of the window, when Don Antonio Grimaldi came in. When he heard what was the matter, he laughed and said, with a shrug of his shoulders, “My dear sir, you had better not go into court, or you will be cast in costs, for the evidence is against you. Probably this man makes a slight mistake in believing himself to be an excellent cook, but the chief mistake is in the agreement, which ought to have stipulated that he should cook a trial dinner. The person who drew up the agreement is either a great knave or a great fool.” At this Possano struck in in his rude way, and told the nobleman that he was neither knave nor fool. “But you are cousin to the cook,” said the landlady. This timely remark solved the mystery. I paid and dismissed the advocate, and having sent the cook out of the room I said, “Do I owe you any money, Possano?” “On the contrary, you paid me a month in advance, and there are ten more days of the month to run.” “I will make you a present of the ten days and send you away this very moment, unless your cousin does not leave my house to-day, and give you the foolish engagement which you signed in my name.” “That’s what I call cutting the Gordian knot,” said M.