The next day, which was the second occasion on which I had visited her, she told me that she had enjoyed the play though she could not understand the dialogues; and the day after she astonished me by saying that my brother had intruded himself into her box, and had said so many impertinent things that if she had been at Venice she would have boxed his ears. “I am afraid,” she added, “that the rascal has followed me here, and will be annoying me.” “Don’t be afraid,” I answered, “I will see what I can do.” When I got to the hotel I entered the abbé’s room, and by Possano’s bed I saw an individual collecting lint and various surgical instruments. “What’s all this? Are you ill?” “Yes, I have got something which will teach me to be wiser for the future.” “It’s rather late for this kind of thing at sixty.” “Better late than never.” “You are an old fool. You stink of mercury.” “I shall not leave my room.” “This will harm you with the marchioness, who believes you to be the greatest of adepts, and consequently above such weaknesses.” “Damn the marchioness! Let me be.” The rascal had never talked in this style before. I thought it best to conceal my anger, and went up to my brother who was in a corner of the room. “What do you mean by pestering Marcoline at the theatre yesterday?” “I went to remind her of her duty, and to warn her that I would not be her complaisant lover.” “You have insulted me and her too, fool that you are! You owe all to Marcoline, for if it had not been for her, I should never have given you a second glance; and yet you behave in this disgraceful manner.” “I have ruined myself for her sake, and I can never shew my face in Venice again. What right have you to take her from me?” “The right of love, blockhead, and the right of luck, and the right of the strongest! How is it that she is happy with me, and does not wish to leave me?” “You have dazzled her.” “Another reason is that with you she was dying of misery and hunger.” “Yes, but the end of it will be that you will abandon her as you have done with many others, whereas I should have married her.” “Married her! You renegade, you seem to forget that you are a priest. I do not propose to part with her, but if I do I will send her away rich.” “Well, well, do as you please; but still I have the right to speak to her whenever I like.” “I have forbidden you to do so, and you may trust me when I tell you that you have spoken to her for the last time.” So saying I went out and called on an advocate. I asked him if I could have a foreign abbé, who was indebted to me, arrested, although I had no proof of the debt. “You can do so, as he is a foreigner, but you will have to pay caution-money. You can have him put under arrest at his inn, and you can make him pay unless he is able to prove that he owes you nothing. Is the sum a large one?” “Twelve louis.” “You must come with me before the magistrate and deposit twelve louis, and from that moment you will be able to have him arrested. Where is he staying?” “In the same hotel as I am, but I do not wish to have him arrested there, so I will get him to the ‘Ste. Baume,’ and put him under arrest. Here are the twelve louis caution-money, so you can get the magistrate’s order, and we will meet again to-morrow.” “Give me his name, and yours also.” I returned in haste to the “Treize Cantons,” and met the abbé, dressed up to the nines, and just about to go out. “Follow me,” said I, “I am going to take you to Marcoline, and you shall have an explanation in her presence.” “With pleasure.” He got into a carriage with me, and I told the coachman to take us to the “Ste. Baume” inn. When we got there, I told him to wait for me, that I was going to fetch Marcoline, and that I would return with her in a minute. I got into the carriage again, and drove to the advocate, who gave the order for arrest to a policeman, who was to execute it. I then returned to the “Treize Cantons” and put his belongings into a trunk, and had them transported to his new abode. I found him under arrest, and talking to the astonished host, who could not understand what it was all about. I told the landlord the mythical history of the abbé debt to me, and handed over the trunk, telling him that he had nothing to fear with regard to the bill, as I would take care that he should be well paid. I then began my talk with the abbé, telling him that he must get ready to leave Marseilles the next day, and that I would pay for his journey to Paris; but that if he did not like to do so, I should leave him to his fate, and in three days he would be expelled from Marseilles. The coward began to weep and said he would go to Paris. “You must start for Lyons to-morrow, but you will first write me out an I O U for twelve louis.” “Why?” “Because I say so. If you do so I will give you twelve louis and tear up the document before your face.” “I have no choice in the matter.” “You are right.” When he had written the I O U, I went to take a place in the diligence for him, and the next morning I went with the advocate to withdraw the arrest and to take back the twelve louis, which I gave to my brother in the diligence, with a letter to M.