Bono had recommended to me, and told him my business. When he heard what I wanted he said,—— “I can do nothing for you, sir, as I have undertaken the case of your opponent. You need not be alarmed, however, at having spoken to me, for I assure you that I will make no use whatever of the information. Possano’s plea or accusation will not be drawn up till the day after to-morrow, but I will not tell him to make haste for fear of your anticipating him, as I have only been informed of your intentions by hazard. However, you will find plenty of advocates at Lyons as honest as I am, and more skilled.” “Could you give me the name of one?” “That would not be etiquette, but M. Bono, who seems to have kindly spoken of me with some esteem, will be able to serve you.” “Can you tell me where your client lives?” “Since his chief aim is to remain hidden, and with good cause, you will see that I could not think of doing such a thing.” In bidding him farewell I put a louis on the table, and though I did it with the utmost delicacy he ran after me and made me take it back. “For once in a way,” I said to myself, “here’s an honest advocate.” As I walked along I thought of putting a spy on Possano and finding out his abode, for I felt a strong desire to have him beaten to death; but where was I to find a spy in a town of which I knew nothing? M. Bono gave me the name of another advocate, and advised me to make haste. “‘Tis in criminal matters,” said he, “and in such cases the first comer always has the advantage.” I asked him to find me a trusty fellow to track out the rascally Possano, but the worthy man would not hear of it. He shewed me that it would be dishonourable to set a spy on the actions of Possano’s advocate. I knew it myself; but what man is there who has not yielded to the voice of vengeance, the most violent and least reasonable of all the passions. I went to the second advocate, whom I found to be a man venerable not only in years but in wisdom. I told him all the circumstances of the affair, which he agreed to take up, saying he would present my plea in the course of the day. “That’s just what I want you to do,” said I, “for his own advocate told me that his pleas would be presented the day after to-morrow.” “That, sir,” said her “would not induce me to act with any greater promptness, as I could not consent to your abusing the confidence of my colleague.” “But there is nothing dishonourable in making use of information which one has acquired by chance.” “That may be a tenable position in some cases, but in the present instance the nature of the affair justifies prompt action. ‘Prior in tempore, Potior in jure’. Prudence bids us attack our enemy. Be so kind, if you please, to call here at three o’clock in the afternoon.” “I will not fail to do so, and in the meanwhile here are six louis.” “I will keep account of my expenditure on your behalf.” “I want you not to spare money.” “Sir, I shall spend only what is absolutely necessary.” I almost believed that probity had chosen a home for herself amongst the Lyons advocates, and here I may say, to the honour of the French bar, that I have never known a more honest body of men than the advocates of France. At three o’clock, having seen that the plan was properly drawn up, I went to Madame d’Urfe’s, and for four hours I worked the oracle in a manner that filled her with delight, and in spite of my vexation I could not help laughing at her insane fancies on the subject of her pregnancy. She was certain of it; she felt all the symptoms. Then she said how sorry she felt that she would not be alive to laugh at all the hypotheses of the Paris doctors as to her being delivered of a child, which would be thought very extraordinary in a woman of her age. When I got back to the inn I found Marcoline very melancholy. She said she had been waiting for me to take her to the play, according to my promise, and that I should not have made her wait in vain. “You are right, dearest, but an affair of importance has kept me with the marchioness. Don’t be put out.” I had need of some such advice myself, for the legal affair worried me, and I slept very ill. Early the next morning I saw my counsel, who told me that my plea had been laid before the criminal lieutenant. “For the present,” said he, “there is nothing more to be done, for as we don’t know where he is we can’t cite him to appear.” “Could I not set the police on his track?” “You might, but I don’t advise you to do so. Let us consider what the result would be. The accuser finding himself accused would have to defend himself and prove the accusation he has made against you. But in the present state of things, if he does not put in an appearance we will get judgment against him for contempt of court and also for libel. Even his counsel will leave him in the lurch if he persistently refuses to shew himself.” This quieted my fears a little, and I spent the rest of the day with Madame d’Urfe, who was going to Paris on the morrow. I promised to be with her as soon as I had dealt with certain matters which concerned the honour of the Fraternity R. C.. Her great maxim was always to respect my secrets, and never to trouble me with her curiosity.