I answered that I would do so, but that she must get me a servant who could speak French or Italian as well as English. She promised to get one in a day’s time, and I paid her for four weeks’ rent on the spot, for which she gave me a receipt under the name of the Chevalier de Seingalt. This was the name by which I was known during the whole of my stay in London. Thus in less than two hours I was comfortably settled in a town which is sometimes described as a chaos, especially for a stranger. But in London everything is easy to him who has money and is not afraid of spending it. I was delighted to be able to escape so soon from a house where I was welcomed so ill, though I had a right to the best reception; but I was still more pleased at the chance which had made me acquainted with Martinelli, whom I had known by repute for six years. When I got back Madame Cornelis had not yet arrived, though ten o’clock had struck. Young Cornelis was asleep on the sofa. I was enraged at the way the woman treated me, but I resolved to put a good face on it. Before long three loud knocks announced the arrival of Madame Cornelis in a sedan-chair, and I heard her ascending the stairs. She came in and seemed glad to see me, but did not come and give me those caresses which I had a right to expect. She ran to her son and took him on her knee, but the sleepy boy did not respond to her kisses with any great warmth. “He is very tired, like myself,” said I, “and considering that we are travellers in need of rest you have kept us waiting a long time.” I do not know whether she would have answered at all, or, if so, what her answer would have been, for just at that moment a servant came in and said that supper was ready. She rose and did me the honour to take my arm, and we went into another room which I had not seen. The table was laid for four, and I was curious enough to enquire who was the fourth person. “It was to have been my daughter, but I left her behind, as when I told her that you and her brother had arrived she asked me if you were well.” “And you have punished her for doing so?” “Certainly, for in my opinion she ought to have asked for her brother first and then for you. Don’t you think I was right?” “Poor Sophie! I am sorry for her. Gratitude has evidently more influence over her than blood relationship.” “It is not a question of sentiment, but of teaching young persons to think with propriety.” “Propriety is often far from proper.” The woman told her son that she was working hard to leave him a fortune when she died, and that she had been obliged to summon him to England as he was old enough to help her in her business. “And how am I to help you, my dear mother?” “I give twelve balls and twelve suppers to the nobility, and the same number to the middle classes in the year. I have often as many as six hundred guests at two guineas a head. The expenses are enormous, and alone as I am I must be robbed, for I can’t be in two places at once. Now that you are here you can keep everything under lock and key, keep the books, pay and receive accounts, and see that everyone is properly attended to at the assemblies; in fine, you will perform the duties of the master.” “And do you think that I can do all that?” “You will easily learn it.” “I think it will be very difficult.” “One of my secretaries will come and live with you, and instruct you in everything. During the first year you will only have to acquire the English language, and to be present at my assemblies, that I may introduce you to the most distinguished people in London. You will get quite English before long.” “I would rather remain French.” “That’s mere prejudice, my dear, you will like the sound of Mister Cornelis by-and-bye.” “Cornelis?” “Yes; that is your name.” “It’s a very funny one.” “I will write it down, so that you may not forget it.” Thinking that her dear son was joking. Madame Cornelis looked at me in some astonishment, and told him to go to bed, which he did instantly. When we were alone she said he struck her as badly educated, and too small for his age. “I am very much afraid,” said she, “that we shall have to begin his education all over again. What has he learnt in the last six years?” “He might have learnt a great deal, for he went to the best boarding school in Paris; but he only learnt what he liked, and what he liked was not much. He can play the flute, ride, fence, dance a minuet, change his shirt every day, answer politely, make a graceful bow, talk elegant trifles, and dress well. As he never had any application, he doesn’t know anything about literature; he can scarcely write, his spelling is abominable, his arithmetic limited, and I doubt whether he knows in what continent England is situated.” “He has used the six years well, certainly.” “Say, rather, he has wasted them; but he will waste many more.” “My daughter will laugh at him; but then it is I who have had the care of her education. He will be ashamed when he finds her so well instructed though she is only eight.” “He will never see her at eight, if I know anything of reckoning; she is fully ten.” “I think I ought to know the age of my own daughter.