I have been teaching your son for the last six years to be always asking something, for that is the way to acquire knowledge. He who asks nothing knows nothing.” I had touched her to the quick, and she fell into a sulky silence. “You have not told me yet,” said the lad, “whether you saw the king.” “Yes, my man, I saw the king and the queen, and both their majesties did me the honour to speak to me.” “Who introduced you?” “The French ambassador.” “I think you will agree with me,” said the mother, “that last question was a little too much.” “Certainly it would be if it were addressed to a stranger, but not to me who am his friend. You will notice that the reply he extracted from me did me honour. If I had not wished it to be known that I had been at Court, I should not have come here in this dress.” “Very good; but as you like to be questioned, may I ask you why you were not presented by your own ambassador?” “Because the Venetian ambassador would not present me, knowing that his Government have a bone to pick with me.” By this time we had come to the dessert, and poor Sophie had not uttered a syllable. “Say something to M. de Seingalt,” said her mother. “I don’t know what to say,” she answered. “Tell M. de Seingalt to ask me some questions, and I will answer to the best of my ability.” “Well, Sophie, tell me in what studies you are engaged at the present time.” “I am learning drawing; if you like I will shew you some of my work.” “I will look at it with pleasure; but tell me how you think you have offended me; you have a guilty air.” “I, sir? I do not think I have done anything amiss.” “Nor do I, my dear; but as you do not look at me when you speak I thought you must be ashamed of something. Are you ashamed of your fine eyes? You blush. What have you done?” “You are embarrassing her,” said the mother. “Tell him, my dear, that you have done nothing, but that a feeling of modesty and respect prevents you from gazing at the persons you address.” “Yes,” said I; “but if modesty bids young ladies lower their eyes, politeness should make them raise them now and again.” No one replied to this objection, which was a sharp cut for the absurd woman; but after an interval of silence we rose from the table, and Sophie went to fetch her drawings. “I won’t look at anything, Sophie, unless you will look at me.” “Come,” said her mother, “look at the gentleman.” She obeyed as quickly as lightning, and I saw the prettiest eyes imaginable. “Now,” said I, “I know you again, and perhaps you may remember having seen me.” “Yes, although it is six years ago since we met, I recognized you directly.” “And yet you did not look me in the face! If you knew how impolite it was to lower your eyes when you are addressing anyone, you would not do it. Who can have given you such a bad lesson?” The child glanced towards her mother, who was standing by a window, and I saw who was her preceptress. I felt that I had taken sufficient vengeance, and began to examine her drawings, to praise them in detail, and to congratulate her on her talents. I told her that she ought to be thankful to have a mother who had given her so good an education. This indirect compliment pleased Madame Cornelis, and Sophie, now free from all restraint, gazed at me with an expression of child-like affection which ravished me. Her features bore the imprint of a noble soul within, and I pitied her for having to grow up under the authority of a foolish mother. Sophie went to the piano, played with feeling, and then sang some Italian airs, to the accompaniment of the guitar, too well for her age. She was too precocious, and wanted much more discretion in her education than Madame Cornelis was able to give her. When her singing had been applauded by the company, her mother told her to dance a minuet with her brother, who had learnt in Paris, but danced badly for want of a good carriage. His sister told him so with a kiss, and then asked me to dance with her, which I did very readily. Her mother, who thought she had danced exquisitely, as was indeed the case, told her that she must give me a kiss. She came up to me, and drawing her on my knee I covered her face with kisses, which she returned with the greatest affection. Her mother laughed with all her heart, and then Sophie, beginning to be doubtful again, went up to her and asked if she were angry. Her mother comforted her with a kiss. After we had taken coffee, which was served in the French fashion, Madame Cornelis shewed me a magnificent hall which she had built, in which she could give supper to four hundred persons seated at one table. She told me, and I could easily believe her, that there was not such another in all London. The last assembly was given before the prorogation of Parliament; it was to take place in four or five days. She had a score of pretty girls in her service, and a dozen footmen all in full livery. “They all rob me,” said she, “but I have to put up with it. What I want is a sharp man to help me and watch over my interests; if I had such an one I should make an immense fortune in a comparatively short time; for when it is a question of pleasure, the English do not care what they spend.” I told her I hoped she would find such man and make the fortune, and then I left her, admiring her enterprise.