In the morning I found Pauline up and dressed. When Sophie saw me she laughed and hid her head under the sheets, but as soon as she felt me near her she soon let me see her pretty little face, which I covered with kisses. When she had got up we breakfasted together, and the time went by as pleasantly as possible till Madame Rancour came for her little charge, who went away with a sad heart. Thus I was left alone with my Pauline who began to inspire me with such ardent desires that I dreaded an explosion every moment. And yet I had not so much as kissed her hand. When Sophie had gone I made her sit beside me, and taking her hand I kissed it rapturously, saying, “Are you married, Pauline?” “Yes.” “Do you know what it is to be a mother?” “No, but I can partly imagine what happiness it must be.” “Are you separated from your husband?” “Yes, by circumstances and against our will. We were separated before we had cohabited together.” “Is he at London?” “No, he is far away, but please don’t say anything more about it.” “Only tell me whether my loss will be his gain.” “Yes, and I promise not to leave you till I have to leave England—that is, unless you dismiss me—and I shall leave this happy island to be happy with the husband of my choice.” “But I, dear Pauline, will be left unhappy, for I love you with all my heart, and am afraid to give you any proof of my love.” “Be generous and spare me, for I am not my own mistress, and have no right to give myself to you; and perhaps, if you were so ungenerous as to attack me, I should not have the strength to resist.” “I will obey, but I shall still languish. I cannot be unhappy unless I forfeit your favour.” “I have duties to perform, my dear friend, and I cannot neglect them without becoming contemptible in my own eyes and yours too.” “I should deem myself the most miserable of men if I despised a woman for making me happy.” “Well, I like you too well to think you capable of such conduct, but let us be moderate, for we may have to part to-morrow. You must confess that if we yielded to desire, this parting would be all the more bitter. If you are of another opinion, that only shews that your ideas of love and mine are different.” “Then tell me of what sort of love is that with which I am happy enough to have inspired you?” “It is of such a kind that enjoyment would only increase it, and yet enjoyment seems to me a mere accident.” “Then what is its essence?” “To live together in perfect unity.” “That’s a blessing we can enjoy from morning to eve, but why should we not add the harmless accident which would take so short a time, and give us such peace and tranquillity. You must confess, Pauline, that the essence cannot exist long without the accident.” “Yes, but you in your turn, you will agree that the food often proves in time to be deadly.” “No, not when one loves truly, as I do. Do you think that you will not love me so well after having possessed me?” “No, it’s because I think quite otherwise, that I dread to make the moment of parting so bitter.” “I see I must yield to your logic. I should like to see the food on which you feed your brain, otherwise your books. Will you let me come upstairs?” “Certainly, but you will be caught.” “How?” “Come and see.” We went to her room, and I found that all her books were Portuguese, with the exception of Milton, in English, Ariosto, in Italian, and Labruyere’s “Characters,” in French. “Your selection gives me a high idea of your mental qualities,” said I, “but tell me, why do you give such a preference to Camoens and all these Portuguese authors?” “For a very good reason, I am Portuguese myself.” “You Portuguese? I thought you were Italian. And so you already know five languages, for you doubtless know Spanish.” “Yes, although Spanish is not absolutely necessary.” “What an education you have had!” “I am twenty-two now, but I knew all these languages at eighteen.” “Tell me who you are, tell me all about yourself. I am worthy of your confidence.” “I think so too, and to give you a proof of my trust in you I am going to tell you my history, for since you love me you can only wish to do me good.” “What are all these manuscripts?” “My history, which I have written down myself. Let us sit down.” CHAPTER IX Pauline’s Story—I Am Happy—Pauline Leaves Me I am the only daughter of the unfortunate Count X—— o, whom Carvailho Oeiras killed in prison on suspicion of being concerned in the attempt on the king’s life, in which the Jesuits were supposed to have had a hand. I do not know whether my father was innocent or guilty, but I do know that the tyrannical minister did not dare to have him tried, or to confiscate the estates, which remain in my possession, though I can only enjoy them by returning to my native land. “My mother had me brought up in a convent where her sister was abbess. I had all kinds of masters, especially an Italian from Leghorn, who in six years taught me all that he thought proper for me to know. He would answer any questions I chose to put him, save on religious matters, but I must confess that his reserve made me all the fonder of him, for in leaving me to reflect on certain subjects by myself he did a great deal to form my judgment. “I was eighteen when my grandfather removed me from the convent, although I protested that I would gladly stay there till I got married.