We forgot to eat, and went to bed hoping that love and anguish would keep us awake, but our exhausted bodies fell into a heavy sleep, and when we awoke we could only sigh and kiss again. Pauline allowed me to escort her as far as Calais, and we started on the 10th of August, only stopping at Dover to embark the carriage on the packet, and four hours afterwards we disembarked at Calais, and Pauline, considering her widowhood had begun, begged me to sleep in another room. She started on the 12th of August, preceded by my poor Clairmont, and resolved only to travel by daytime. The analogy between my parting with Pauline and my parting with Henriette fifteen years before, was exceedingly striking; the two women were of very similar character, and both were equally beautiful, though their beauty was of a different kind. Thus I fell as madly in love with the second as with the first, both being equally intelligent. The fact that one had more talent and less prejudices than the other must have been an effect of their different educations. Pauline had the fine pride of her nation, her mind was a serious cast, and her religion was more an affair of the heart than the understanding. She was also a far more ardent mistress than Henriette. I was successful with both of them because I was rich; if I had been a poor man I should never have known either of them. I have half forgotten them, as everything is forgotten in time, but when I recall them to my memory I find that Henriette made the profounder impression on me, no doubt because I was twenty-five when I knew her, while I was thirty-seven in London. The older I get the more I feel the destructive effects of old age; and I regret bitterly that I could not discover the secret of remaining young and happy for ever. Vain regrets! we must finish as we began, helpless and devoid of sense. I went back to England the same day, and had a troublesome passage. Nevertheless, I did not rest at Dover; and as soon as I got to London I shut myself up with a truly English attack of the spleen, while I thought of Pauline and strove to forget her. Jarbe put me to bed, and in the morning, when he came into my room, he made me shudder with a speech at which I laughed afterwards. “Sir,” said he, “the old woman wants to know whether she is to put up the notice again.” “The old hag! Does she want me to choke her?” “Good heavens-no, sir! She is very fond of you, seeing you seemed so sad, she thought . . . .” “Go and tell her never to think such things again, and as for you . . . .” “I will do as you wish, sir.” “Then leave me.” EPISODE 23—THE ENGLISH CHAPTER X Eccentricity of the English—Castelbajac Count Schwerin— Sophie at School—My Reception at the Betting Club— The Charpillon I passed a night which seemed like a never-ending nightmare, and I got up sad and savage, feeling as if I could kill a man on the smallest provocation. It seemed as if the house, which I had hitherto thought so beautiful, was like a millstone about my neck. I went out in my travelling clothes, and walked into a coffee-house, where I saw a score of people reading the papers. I sat down, and, not understanding English, passed my time in gazing at the goers and comers. I had been there some time when my attention was attracted by the voice of a man speaking as follows in French: “Tommy has committed suicide, and he was wise, for he was in such a state that he could only expect unhappiness for the rest of his life.” “You are quite mistaken,” said the other, with the greatest composure. “I was one of his creditors myself, and on making an inventory of his effects I feel satisfied that he has done a very foolish and a very childish thing; he might have lived on comfortably, and not killed himself for fully six months.” At any other time this calculation would have made me laugh, and, as it was, I felt as if the incident had done me good. I left the coffee-house without having said a word or spent a penny, and I went towards the Exchange to get some money. Bosanquet gave me what I wanted directly, and as I walked out with him I noticed a curious-looking individual, whose name I asked. “He’s worth a hundred thousand,” said the banker. “And who is that other man over there?” “He’s not worth a ten-pound note.” “But I don’t want to hear what they are worth; it’s their names I want.” “I really don’t know.” “How can you tell how much they are worth, not knowing their names?” “Names don’t go for anything here. What we want to know about a man is how much he has got? Besides; what’s in a name? Ask me for a thousand pounds and give me a proper receipt, and you can do it under the name of Socrates or Attila, for all I care. You will pay me back my money as Socrates or Attila, and not as Seingalt; that is all.” “But how about signing bills of exchange?” “That’s another thing; I must use the name which the drawer gives me.” “I don’t understand that.” “Well, you see, you are not English, nor are you a business man.” On leaving him I walked towards the park, but wishing to change a twenty-pound note before going in I went to a fat merchant, an epicure whose acquaintance I had made at the tavern, and put down the note on his counter, begging him to cash it for me. “Come again in an hour,” said he, “I have no money by me just now.” “Very good; I will call again when I come from the park.” “Take back your note; you shall give it to me when I hand you the money.” “Never mind; keep it.