I left her saying I should hope to hear from her soon. At ten o’clock the next day Jarbe came to ask if I had forgotten my engagement. “No,” said I, “but it is only ten o’clock.” “Yes, but we have twenty miles to go.” “Twenty miles?” “Certainly, the house is at St. Albans.” “It’s very strange Pembroke never told me; how did you find out the address?” “He left it when he went away.” “Just like an Englishman.” I took a post-chaise, and in three hours I had reached my destination. The English roads are excellent, and the country offers a smiling prospect on every side. The vine is lacking, for though the English soil is fertile it will not bear grapes. Lord Pembroke’s house was not a particularly large one, but twenty masters and their servants could easily be accommodated in it. The lady had not yet arrived, so my lord shewed me his gardens, his fountains, and his magnificent hot-houses; also a cock chained by the leg, and of a truly ferocious aspect. “What have we here, my lord?” “A cock.” “I see it is, but why do you chain it?” “Because it is savage. It is very amorous, and if it were loose it would go after the hens, and kill all the cocks on the country-side.” “But why do you condemn him to celibacy?” “To make him fiercer. Here, this is the list of his conquests.” He gave me a list of his cock’s victories, in which he had killed the other bird; this had happened more than thirty times. He then shewed me the steel spurs, at the sight of which the cock began to ruffle and crow. I could not help laughing to see such a martial spirit in so small an animal. He seemed possessed by the demon of strife, and lifted now one foot and now the other, as if to beg that his arms might be put on. Pembroke then exhibited the helmet, also of steel. “But with such arms,” said I, “he is sure of conquest.” “No; for when he is armed cap-a-pie he will not fight with a defenceless cock.” “I can’t believe it, my lord.” “It’s a well-known fact. Here, read this.” He then gave me a piece of paper with this remarkable biped’s pedigree. He could prove his thirty-two quarters more easily than a good many noblemen, on the father’s side, be it understood, for if he could have proved pure blood on the mother’s side as well, Lord Pembroke would have decorated him with the Order of the Golden Fleece at least. “The bird cost me a hundred guineas,” said he, “but I would not sell him for a thousand.” “Has he any offspring?” “He tries his best, but there are difficulties.” I do not remember whether Lord Pembroke explained what these difficulties were. Certainly the English offer more peculiarities to the attentive observer than any other nation. At last a carriage containing a lady and two gentlemen drove up to the door. One of the gentlemen was the rascally Castelbajac and the other was introduced as Count Schwerin, nephew of the famous marshal of that name who fell on what is commonly called the field of glory. General Bekw—— an Englishman who was in the service of the King of Prussia, and was one of Pembroke’s guests, received Schwerin politely, saying that he had seen his uncle die; at this the modest nephew drew the Order of the Black Eagle from his breast, and shewed it to us all covered with blood. “My uncle wore it on the day of his death, and the King of Prussia allowed me to keep it as a noble memorial of my kinsman.” “Yes,” said an Englishman who was present, “but the coat-pocket is not the place for a thing like that.” Schwerin made as if he did not understand, and this enabled me to take his measure. Lord Pembroke took possession of the lady, whom I did not think worthy of being compared to Pauline. She was paler and shorter, and utterly deficient in Pauline’s noble air; besides, when she smiled it spoiled her face, and this is a defect in a woman, to whom laughter should always be becoming. Lord Pembroke introduced us all to each other, and when he came to me Castelbajac said he was delighted to see me again, although he might easily have pretended not to know me under my name of Seingalt. We had a good English dinner, and afterwards the lady proposed a game of faro. My lord never played, so the general consented to amuse the company by holding the bank, and placed a hundred guineas and several bank notes on the table. There might be a thousand guineas in all. He then gave twenty counters to each punter, saying that every counter was worth ten shillings. As I only staked gold against gold I would not accept them. By the third deal Schwerin had lost his twenty counters and asked for twenty more; but the banker told him he must pay for them, and the self-styled field-marshal’s nephew lapsed into silence and played no more. At the following deal Castelbajac was in the same position as his friend, and being on my side he begged to be allowed to take ten pieces. “You will bring me ill-luck,” I said, coldly, warding off his hand; and he went out to the garden, no doubt to swallow the affront he had received. The lady said her husband had forgotten his pocketbook. An hour afterwards the game came to an end, and I took my leave, after inviting Lord Pembroke and the rest of the company to dine with me the next day. I got home at eleven o’clock without meeting any highwaymen as I had expected, indeed I had put up six guineas in a small purse for their special use and benefit. I woke up my cook to tell him that the next day I should have twelve people to dinner, and that I hoped he would do me honour.