My servant sent back the carriage, and came to keep me company. The six constables said they could not leave me, and told me I should send out for some meat and drink for them. I told my negro to give them what they wanted, and to be as amicable with them as was possible. As I had not committed any crime, I was quite at ease; I knew that my arrest must be the effect of a slander, and as I was aware that London justice was speedy and equitable, I thought I should soon be free. But I blamed myself for having transgressed the excellent maxim, never to answer anyone in the night time; for if I had not done so I should have been in my house, and not in prison. The mistake, however, had been committed, and there was nothing to be done but to wait patiently. I amused myself by reflecting on my rapid passage from a numerous and exalted assemblage to the vile place I now occupied, though I was still dressed like a prince. At last the day dawned, and the keeper of the tavern came to see who the prisoner was. I could not helping laughing at him when he saw me, for he immediately began to abuse the constables for not awaking him when I came; he had lost the guinea I should have paid for a private room. At last news was brought that the magistrate was sitting, and that I must be brought up. A coach was summoned, and I got into it, for if I had dared to walk along the streets in my magnificent attire the mob would have pelted me. I went into the hall of justice, and all eyes were at once attracted towards me; my silks and satins appeared to them the height of impertinence. At the end of the room I saw a gentleman sitting in an arm-chair, and concluded him to be my judge. I was right, and the judge was blind. He wore a broad band round his head, passing over his eyes. A man beside me, guessing I was a foreigner, said in French,— “Be of good courage, Mr. Fielding is a just and equitable magistrate.” I thanked the kindly unknown, and was delighted to see before me this famous and estimable writer, whose works are an honour to the English nation. When my turn came, the clerk of the court told Mr. Fielding my name, at least, so I presume. “Signor Casanova,” said he, in excellent Italian, “be kind enough to step forward. I wish to speak to you.” I was delighted to hear the accents of my native tongue, and making my way through the press I came up to the bar of the court, and said,— “Eccomi, Signore.” He continued to speak Italian, and said,— “Signor de Casanova, of Venice, you are condemned to perpetual confinement in the prisons of His Majesty the King of Great Britain.” “I should like to know, sir, for what crime I am condemned. Would you be kind enough to inform me as to its nature?” “Your demand is a reasonable one, for with us no one is condemned without knowing the cause of his condemnation. You must know, then, that the accusation (which is supported by two witnesses) charges you with intending to do grievous bodily harm to the person of a pretty girl; and as this pretty girl aforesaid goes in dread of you, the law decrees that you must be kept in prison for the rest of your days.” “Sir, this accusation is a groundless calumny; to that I will take my oath! It is very possible indeed that the girl may fear my vengeance when she comes to consider her own conduct, but I can assure you that I have had no such designs hitherto, and I don’t think I ever shall.” “She has two witnesses.” “Then they are false ones. But may I ask your worship the name of my accuser?” “Miss Charpillon.” “I thought as much; but I have never given her aught but proofs of my affection.” “Then you have no wish to do her any bodily harm?” “Certainly not.” “Then I congratulate you. You can dine at home; but you must find two sureties. I must have an assurance from the mouths of two householders that you will never commit such a crime.” “Whom shall I find to do so?” “Two well-known Englishmen, whose friendship you have gained, and who know that you are incapable of such an action. Send for them, and if they arrive before I go to dinner I will set you at liberty.” The constable took me back to prison, where I had passed the night, and I gave my servants the addresses of all the householders I recollected, bidding them explain my situation, and to be as quick as possible. They ought to have come before noon, but London is such a large place! They did not arrive, and the magistrate went to dinner. I comforted myself by the thought that he would sit in the afternoon, but I had to put up with a disagreeable experience. The chief constable, accompanied by an interpreter, came to say that I must go to Newgate. This is a prison where the most wretched and abject criminals are kept. I signified to him that I was awaiting bail, and that he could take me to Newgate in the evening if it did not come, but he only turned a deaf ear to my petition. The interpreter told me in a whisper that the fellow was certainly paid by the other side to put me to trouble, but that if I liked to bribe him I could stay where I was. “How much will he want?” The interpreter took the constable aside, and then told me that I could stay where I was for ten guineas. “Then say that I should like to see Newgate.” A coach was summoned, and I was taken away.