The worthy people of the house must have taken an idea of me not in the least like myself; I was thought to be the most patient of men, and the sister and her young lady friends must have considered me as modesty personified; but these virtues only resulted from my illness and my great depression. If you want to discover the character of a man, view him in health and freedom; a captive and in sickness he is no longer the same man. I gave a beautiful dress to the sister, and twenty louis to the doctor, and both seemed to me extremely satisfied. On the eve of my departure I received a letter from Madame du Rumain, who had heard I was in want from my friend Baletti, and sent me a bill of exchange on Amsterdam for six hundred florins. She said I could repay her at my convenience, but she died before I was able to discharge the debt. Having made up my mind to go to Brunswick, I could not resist the temptation to pass through Hanover, for whenever I thought of Gabrielle I loved her still. I did not wish to stop any length of time, for I was poor and I had to be careful of my health. I only wished to pay her a flying visit on the estate which her mother had at Stocken, as she had told me. I may also say that curiosity was a motive for this visit. I had decided to start at day-break in my new carriage, but the fates had ordained it otherwise. The English general wrote me a note asking me to sup with him, telling me that some Italians would be present, and this decided me to stay on, but I had to promise the doctor to observe strict temperance. My surprise may be imagined when I saw the Redegonde and her abominable mother. The mother did not recognize me at first, but Redegonde knew me directly, and said,— “Good Heavens! how thin you have become!” I complimented her on her beauty, and indeed she had improved wonderfully. “I have just recovered from a dangerous illness,” said I, “and I am starting for Brunswick at day-break tomorrow.” “So are we,” she exclaimed, looking at her mother. The general, delighted to find that we knew each other, said we could travel together. “Hardly, I think,” I replied, “unless the lady-mother has changed her principles since I knew her.” “I am always the same,” she said, dryly enough; but I only replied with a glance of contempt. The general held a bank at faro at a small table. There were several other ladies and some officers, and the stakes were small. He offered me a place, but I excused myself, saying that I never played while on a journey. At the end of the deal the general returned to the charge, and said,— “Really, chevalier, this maxim of yours is anti-social; you must play.” So saying he drew several English bank notes from his pocket-book, telling me they were the same I had given him in London six months ago. “Take your revenge,” he added; “there are four hundred pounds here.” “I don’t want to lose as much as that,” I replied, “but I will risk fifty pounds to amuse you.” With this I took out the bill of exchange that Madame du Rumain had sent me. The general went on dealing, and at the third deal I found I was fifty guineas to the good, and with that I was satisfied. Directly afterwards supper was announced, and we went into the dining-room. Redegonde, who had learnt French admirably, kept everybody amused. She had been engaged by the Duke of Brunswick as second singer, and she had come from Brussels. She bemoaned her journey in the uncomfortable post-chaise, and expressed a fear that she would be ill by the time she got to her journey’s end. “Why, there’s the Chevalier Seingalt all alone in a most comfortable carriage,” said the general. Redegonde smiled. “How many people will your carriage hold?” “Only two.” “Then it’s out of the question, for I never let my daughter travel alone with anybody.” A general burst of laughter, in which Redegonde joined, seemed to confuse the mother in some degree; but like a good daughter Redegonde explained that her mother was always afraid of her being assassinated. The evening passed away in pleasant conversation, and the younger singer did not need much persuasion to seat herself at the piano, where she sang in a manner that won genuine applause. When I wanted to go the general begged me to breakfast with him, saying that the post-chaise did not go till twelve, and that this act of politeness was due to my young fellow-countrywoman. Redegonde joined in, reproaching me with my behaviour at Turin and Florence, though she had nothing really to complain of. I gave in, and feeling that I wanted rest I went to bed. The next morning, at nine o’clock, I took leave of the worthy doctor and his family and walked to the general’s, giving orders that my carriage should be brought round as soon as it was ready. In half an hour Redegonde and her mother arrived, and I was astonished to see them accompanied by the brother who had been my servant at Florence. When breakfast was over my carriage stood at the door, and I made my bow to the general and all the company, who were standing in the hall to see me off. Redegonde came down the steps with me, and asked if my carriage was comfortable, and then got into it. I got in after her without the slightest premeditation, and the postillion, seeing the carriage full, gave a crack with his whip and we were off, Redegonde shrieking with laughter. I was on the point of telling him to stop, but seeing her enjoyment of the drive I held my tongue, only waiting for her to say, “I have had enough.” But I waited in vain, and we had gone over half a league before she said a word.