Petersburg, and to remit me through him every month a sum which would keep me in comfort. I could not travel without a servant, and chance kindly provided me with one. I was sitting with Madame Rufin, when a young Lorrainer came in; like Bias, he bore all his fortune with him, but, in his case, it was carried under his arm. He introduced himself thus: “Madam, my name is Lambert, I come from Lorraine, and I wish to lodge here.” “Very good, sir, but you must pay for your board and lodging every day.” “That, madam, is out of the question, for I have not got a farthing, but I shall have some money when I discover who I am.” “I am afraid I cannot put you up on those conditions, sir.” He was going away with a mortified air, when my heart was touched, and I called him back. “Stay,” said I, “I will pay for you to-day.” Happiness beamed over his face. “What have you got in that little bundle?” said I. “Two shirts, a score of mathematical books, and some other trifles.” I took him to my room, and finding him tolerably well educated, I asked him how he came to be in such a state of destitution. “I come from Strasburg,” he replied, “and a cadet of a regiment stationed there having given me a blow in a coffee-house I paid him a visit the next day in his own room and stabbed him there. “After this I went home, made up my bundle, and left the town. I walked all the way and lived soberly, so that my money lasted till this morning. To-morrow I shall write to my mother, who lives at Luneville, and I am sure she will send me some money.” “And what do you think of doing?” “I want to become a military engineer, but if needs must I am ready to enlist as a private soldier.” “I can give you board and lodging till you hear from your mother.” “Heaven has sent you in my way,” said he, kissing my hand gratefully. I did not suspect him of deceiving me, though he stumbled somewhat in his narrative. However my curiosity led me to write to M. Schauenbourg, who was then at Strasburg, to enquire if the tale were true. The next day I happened to meet an officer of engineers, who told me that young men of education were so plentiful that they did not receive them into the service unless they were willing to serve as common soldiers. I was sorry for the young man to be reduced so low as that. I began to spend some time with him every day in mathematical calculations, and I conceived the idea of taking him with me to St. Petersburg, and broached the subject to him. “It would be a piece of good fortune for me,” he replied, “and to shew my gratitude I will gladly wait on you as a servant during the journey.” He spoke French badly, but as he was a Lorrainer I was not astonished at that. Nevertheless I was surprised to find that he did not know a word of Latin, and that his spelling was of the wildest description. He saw me laughing, but did not seem in the least ashamed. Indeed he said that he had only gone to school to learn mathematics, and that he was very glad that he had escaped the infliction of learning grammar. Indeed, on every subject besides mathematics, he was profoundly ignorant. He had no manners whatever; in fact, he was a mere peasant. Ten or twelve days later I received a letter from M. de Schauenbourg, saying that the name of Lambert was unknown in Strasburg, and that no cadet had been killed or wounded. When I shewed Lambert this letter he said that as he wished to enter the army he thought it would be of service to him to shew that he was brave, adding that as this lie had not been told with the idea of imposing on me I should forgive it. “Poverty,” said he, “is a rascally teacher, that gives a man some bad lessons. I am not a liar by disposition, but I have nevertheless told you a lie on another and a more important matter. I don’t expect any money whatever from my poor mother, who rather needs that I should send money to her. So forgive me, and be sure I shall be a faithful servant to you.” I was always ready to forgive other men’s peccadilloes, and not without cause. I liked Lambert’s line of argument, and told him that we would set out in five or six days. Baron Bodisson, a Venetian who wanted to sell the king a picture by Andrea del Sarto, asked me to come with him to Potsdam and the desire of seeing the monarch once again made me accept the invitation. When I reached Potsdam I went to see the parade at which Frederick was nearly always to be found. When he saw me he came up and asked me in a familiar manner when I was going to start for St. Petersburg. “In five or six days, if your majesty has no objection.” “I wish you a pleasant journey; but what do you hope to do in that land?” “What I hoped to do in this land, namely, to please the sovereign.” “Have you got an introduction to the empress?” “No, but I have an introduction to a banker.” “Ah! that’s much better. If you pass through Prussia on your return I shall be delighted to hear of your adventures in Russia.” “Farewell, sire.” Such was the second interview I had with this great king, whom I never saw again. After I had taken leave of all my friends I applied to Baron Treidel, who gave me a letter for M. de Kaiserling, lord-chancellor at Mitau, and another letter for his sister, the Duchess of Courland, and I spent the last night with the charming Madame Denis.